id: kDZyfKvYjCk
title: John Helmer: Russian Sources Say Trump Has Accepted Russia's Territorial Claims in Ukraine
uploader: Reason2Resist with Dimitri Lascaris
channel: Reason2Resist with Dimitri Lascaris
upload_date: 20250816
duration: 1:11:29
view_count: 186075
like_count: 7383
categories: ['News & Politics']
tags: ['Israel', 'Lebanon', 'Iraq', 'Canada', 'ww3', 'Palestine', 'Gaza', 'geopolitics', 'Dimitri Lascaris', 'genocide']
webpage_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kDZyfKvYjCk
description: ```After meeting for less than three hours in Alaska on August 15, Russian President Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald Trump held a joint press conference in which they fielded no questions.

During that press conference, Trump disclosed that no Ukraine peace-deal had been struck, but also claimed (without disclosing any details) that the U.S. and Russian governments had reached agreement on several key issues.

Trump then stated that he would speak with NATO and European leaders, as well as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, with a view to securing their support for the Trump administration's approach to resolving the Ukraine war.

On the day after the Putin-Trump press conference, Dimitri Lascaris spoke with John Helmer about what really happened behind closed doors in Alaska.

John revealed that, according to his Russian sources, the Trump administration has accepted Russia's claims to Crimea and four oblasts in southeastern Ukraine, and has also accepted that Ukraine will not become a member of NATO.

John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only Western journalist to direct his own bureau, independent of national or commercial ties. He is a frequent guest on Reason2Resist.

***********************************

You can support Reason2Resist on Patreon hereüí∞:  https://patreon.com/Reason2Resist

üí°Connect with other Dimitri Lascaris social platformsüí°
‚û°Ô∏èFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/reason2resistFB
‚û°Ô∏èInstagram: https://www.instagram.com/dimitrilascaris
‚û°Ô∏èTiktok: https://www.tiktok.com/@dimitrilascaris33
‚û°Ô∏èTwitter: https://twitter.com/dimitrilascaris
‚û°Ô∏èLinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/dimitri-lascaris-6231561
‚û°Ô∏èRumble: https://www.rumble.com/user/DimitriLascaris
‚û°Ô∏èTelegram: https://t.me/reason2resist
‚û°Ô∏èSubstack: https://reason2resist.substack.com/
```

transcript:
[Music]
Good day. This is Demetri Lceras coming
to you from Kamata, Greece for Reason to
Resist on August 16th, 20125.
Yesterday, Russian President Vladimir
Putin and US President Donald Trump met
face to face for the first time since
Trump returned to the White House in
January of this year. Their meeting took
place in Alaska. Let's have a look at
what happened after President Putin's
plane touched down at the Elmenorf
Richardson US Air Base in Alaska.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
President Putin, will you agree to a
ceasefire?
Mr. President, what's your message to
Vladimir Putin?
Mr. Putin, did you underestimate
Ukraine?
President Putin, will you stop killing
civilians?
President, how can the US press your
word?
Thank you, press. Thank you. So, um, as
you just heard, a female reporter with a
distinctly American accent shouted
several questions at Russia's pre
Russia's president in Russia's
president, including this one. President
Putin, will you stop killing civilians?
If only US corporate reporters asked
such questions of American presidents
themselves or of their allies like
Benjamin Netanyahu. In any case,
President Putin answered none of those
questions and as you saw, pointed to his
ear as if to say that he could not hear
the questions over the roar of jet
engines. Uh, you may have noticed as
well that as the two presidents walked
toward the podium, the they looked
skyward as airplanes could be heard
flying overhead. Those airplanes were a
USB B2 stealth bomber accompanied by
several US fighter jets. The two
presidents then met face tof face for
three hours or actually a little bit
less than that I understand. President
Putin was joined in that meeting by
Russian foreign minister Sergey Lav and
his foreign policy adviser Yuri Ushakov.
President Trump was joined by US
Secretary of State Marco Rubio and
Trump's so-called peace envoy Steve
Witkov. Uh their closed doorto meeting
was expected to last up to seven hours
but as I just mentioned uh it lasted
less than three. And afterwards, the two
presidents delivered remarks in a
12minute or so press conference, but
took no questions. Uh, President Putin,
I understand, returned to the territory
of Russia after the press conference and
did not spend the night on US soil.
We'll show you some excerpts from that
press conference, but before we do so,
let me bring our guest into the
discussion. Today, we're pleased to be
joined again by John Helmer. John is the
longest continuously serving foreign
correspondent in Russia and the only
Western journalist to direct his own
bureau independent of national
commercial ties. Born and educated in
Australia then at Harvard University.
John has also been a professor of
political science, sociology and journal
journalism and an adviser to governments
including those of Greece and Australia.
He's also published several books on
military and political topics. His
latest being long live Novach, the
British poison that fooled the world.
Thank you for coming back on to Reason
to Resist. John,
thank you for having me, Dimmitri. Good
to be here.
John, let's begin with uh President
Putin's arrival in Alaska. As I
mentioned, there was a flyover of a B2
stealth bomber.
Yes.
Uh at the moment, um what did you make
of that and what were your overall
impressions about the way in which
President Trump chose to greet uh
President Putin?
Well, um there's a lot that's visible uh
in in the clip you showed. Uh you also
left out some bits which I'll come to in
just a minute. Um overall uh what
President Trump turned on was a
characteristic display of lethal power.
It was not only that he had the B2 fly
over accompanied by four of a fighter
jet escort
and stop to watch. Um the Honor Guard
was not a a collection of soldiers
presenting arms. It was a uh a lineup of
F-22 fighter jets. Uh Elmanorf
Richardson Air Base is a fighter
interception air base. It's for defense
against incoming.
It's not a bomber base. B2s are not
based at Elundorf. The display of the
F2s as an honor guard was an attempt to
say as Trump actually said later on and
said in the the U Fox News uh interview
that he that he gave immediately after
the press conference. Um US arms are the
greatest in the world. US capacity to
inflict violence is the greatest in the
world. um we've just made peace by
inflicting a B2 bomber attack on Iran
and so forth and so on. We've been
through that before. Our audience is
very familiar with that.
Before you continue, John, uh before you
continue, I just want to ask you a
question about this. Um you you didn't
quite see it in the clip that I showed,
but uh on either side of the red carpet
uh that they walked to uh get onto the
podium, there were fighter jets. Uh, but
what was interesting to me, you only see
the nose of one or two of them in that
in that clip, but when you see them in
full, I didn't see any markings on those
fighter jets, and it looked almost as
though whatever markings there had been
were painted over. You're confident that
those were not Russian jets, but those
were actually American warplanes. Is
that your understanding?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
No, no Russian jet that I'm aware of um
penetrated American airspace. just the
civilian aircraft carrying President
Putin last but also the ministers of
state who came the day before plus the
press.
There were some other bits that you left
out because it's it's very subtle and
perhaps we can go through that there is
a kind of let's call it a secret or
subliminal
um set of signals from this which are
very important um to corroborate what I
believe to have been the um the
difference between the um Russian source
interpretation of what happened um
Trump's frustration
on which he put a good face at what
happened, the very brevity of what
happened compared to the schedule. By
the way, the schedule was announced in
advance by the Kremlin. the uh White
House was very slow to put up um an
official itinerary and they were very
slow in identifying how many people were
on the US delegation and who and how
many events there would be in what order
and at with what duration. So what
happened was far too little far too
short for a negotiation on terms.
Second, it was a significant success
from a Russian point of view. I'll
explain that a in a minute. And third,
President Putin turned in a performance
that was highly collectively addressed
to the home audience.
He he mobilized more than 20 officials
in Kremlin the day before to discuss
what would be discussed. and he had
discussed on the telephone with almost
all Russia's allies over the previous
week what would be discussed
right now before
you actually get into what happened uh
because I I think it would be useful for
us to show clips uh of the press
conference and then I wanted to after
our audience has had the benefit of
seeing some of these clips I wanted you
to offer us your views on what actually
happened to this thing but I don't want
to prevent you from continuing your
analysis of what happened upon the
arrival of Vladimir Putin.
Yeah. So, if you have something more to
say about that, um, please please go
ahead. If not, I'd like to show some
clips before we continue to talking
about what happened.
Let let me quickly insert what happened
visually that indicated how much control
President Putin was showing. Um, what
you didn't see as each president got out
of his airplane, it it's quite a
ceremony.
Each president of the two most powerful
states on earth nuclear-wise and each
gets out of his airplane and walks
towards the other in a manner of
speaking. It's on US territory. Yes. In
Putin's walk,
he gives two thumbs up as he walks
towards Trump. It's a long walk and he
does this and you can hardly see it, but
I've spent a long time looking at this
carefully. And there are some body
language analyses which slow things down
and let you look. What Putin was doing
was signaling to Trump, we've agreed.
Don't worry, it's all taken care of, as
indeed my Russian sources believe had
been agreed before they arrived, which
explains a lot that followed. Second,
when President Putin met with uh
emissary Steven Vidco in the Kremlin the
weekend before, he made a highly
unusual, highly unusual head bow to
Vitkov at the shake hands welcoming in
the Kremlin. I've never seen it before.
Never seen it before. Presidents do not
bow to messenger boys ever. Now, I know
a lot of people who've heard me explain
this with a picture that it's customary
for judo um adepts like President Putin
to do that. No, no. Judo bows come from
the waist, never from the head. Never
from the head. What Putin did was ramrod
stiff all the way through the welcome.
He never nodded his head. He did not bow
towards Trump. He was very sensitive to
it. He did bow at the end of the of the
day. And we can come to that when he
went presented flowers at the graves of
Soviet pilots who'd been killed during
World War II's um resupply operations
during the war against Germany. He
bowed, crossed himself, and presented
flowers at each of the graves. That's
the only time, and it's well within
Christian Orthodox tradition, to have
done what he did. What he showed in this
occasion was a physical demonstration of
his
um unreadiness
to concede
unreasonably to the US. And what Trump
showed with his display of power was the
usual unreasonable display of US power.
I hope that explains it. But there's a
lot more body language we can talk about
if that's because it's a reasonable
explanation of of what actually began to
happen. But by all means, let's look at
the press conference so that I can then
tell you who didn't show up and why.
Okay. So uh as I indicated the press
conference lasted for a little more than
12 minutes. Uh interestingly President
Putin spoke for nearly eight of those 12
minutes and well over well over one half
of his time uh maybe even twothirds of
it was devoted to discussing
the positive aspects of the historical
relationship between Russia and the
United States as well as the fact that
the two nations are close neighbors
literally several kilometers away from
each other territorially speaking. Um,
President Putin then had this to say
about the Ukraine war and uh his
dealings with President Trump
and you know fully well that one of the
central issues was the situation around
Ukraine. We see the strive of the
administration and President Trump
personally to help facilitate the
resolution of the Ukrainian conflict and
his strive to get to the crux of the
matter to understand this history is
precious. As I've said, the situation in
Ukraine has to do with the fundamental
threats to our security. Moreover, we've
always considered the Ukrainian nation,
and I've said it multiple times, a
brotherly nation. However strange it may
sound in these conditions, we have the
same roots, and everything that's
happening is a tragedy for us and
terrible wound.
Therefore, the country is sincerely
interested in putting an end to it. At
the same time, we're convinced
that in order to to make the settlement
lasting and long-term, we need to
eliminate all the primary roots, the
primary causes of that conflict. And
we've said it multiple times to consider
all legitimate concerns of Russia and to
reinstate a just balance of security in
Europe and in world on the whole. And I
agree with President Trump as he has
said today that naturally the security
of Ukraine should be insured as well
naturally.
Okay. So um
uh
the Russia's government has been saying
John since no later than June of last
year uh that to end the war the root
causes of the war will have to be
addressed. And we just heard that from
Russia's president again after this
nearly three-hour meeting face tof face
with President Trump. Now, in that press
conference, he didn't reiterate what the
root causes are. Uh but we know from
prior statements, many of them, not just
by President Putin, but also by various
senior officials of the uh the Putin
administration, that uh they include
NATO membership for Ukraine, the
militarization of Ukraine, something
that the Russian Federation wants to
undo. uh Kiev's disregard for the rights
of Ukraine's uh Russian speakers and of
course the territorial question uh who
will have sovereignty over those four
oas that Russia has annexed and Crimea.
Um in the leadup to this meeting, Donald
Trump claimed that there would be land
swaps between Russia and Ukraine and he
uh as and other Trump administration
officials strongly implied that Russia
was prepared to make major concessions
uh from its core demands. Uh but I heard
nothing in that press conference nor
have I seen any statement from Russia's
government since the press conference
ended. Uh and by the way I went to the
website of TAS uh saw nothing there
which enlightened us as to what
happened. At least I didn't see
anything. I went to the website of RT
International. I went to the website of
the office of the Russian president and
I saw nothing which causes me to think
that there were any concessions made uh
from Russia Russia Russia's oft repeated
core demands. And so my question to you
is first of all have you seen any
indication either in the press
conference or from subsequenta
statements from uh reliable officials
that Russia's core demands have
materially changed?
No. No. uh categorically no um indeed
what's happening here in my belief but
let's put it another way in the belief
of the Russian sources we've all had a
very long night from a Russian point of
view um so people are groggy people are
also a bit euphoric um the state PR line
and you mentioned RT that's a state PR
organ are much more reliable um source
to follow in events like this is Ria
novesty which gives you um time tags and
ballby ball moment by moment um clips
and texts
um real nosty for events like this not
RT but um there hasn't been a change of
Russian positions
what uh what there was in advance
of this meeting as I understand it from
my Russian sources who were not speaking
euphorically, who were speaking
realistically and in a position to know
and whose positions to know I've been
testing for weeks now. Their view was
that the
basically to put it in a very simple way
um
Trump's
position as expressed by Vitkov a week
ago in the Kremlin was give me a
ceasefire so I can get out of this war.
Very simple. Give me a ceasefire so I
can get out of this war. When Putin says
in the press conference and bear in mind
as you noted that was a written speech.
He was reading it. It had been prepared
before the press conference. Arguably it
had been prepared before he landed. It
would have been modified and anything
significantly changed during the
proceedings. But put but President Trump
has a very short attention span. He
could barely sit still or stand still
listening to to to Putin uh talk for
eight minutes out of 12. Bear in mind
Trump didn't have any papers prepared
any at all. He improvised very easily
and finished. What happened was that the
Russian side agreed as Putin said,
"President Trump is not the best bet
that we could have ever imagined, but he
is the only choice we've imagined who's
been practically there. He has been the
one striving to end this war." first.
Second,
Trump and Putin agreed
that had Trump been president, this is a
a myth, but they agreed publicly and
Trump repeated what Putin had agreed to.
If Trump had been president, there would
be no such war.
John, can I I'd like I'd like to
actually show that clip. I was going to
ask you about it, so we may as well
share that now. Sorry about that.
Okay.
And one more thing, I'd like to remind
you that in 2022,
during the last contact with a previous
administration, I tried to convince my
previous American colleague
that it should not the situation should
not be
brought to the point of no return when
it would come to hostilities. And I said
it quite directly back then that it's a
big mistake.
Today when President Trump saying that
if he was the president back then there
will be no war and I'm quite sure that
it would indeed be so.
So there you have it. He's embracing the
oft repeated statement from Trump that
if he had been the president uh in the
last administration uh the war in
Ukraine would never have happened.
Sorry, please continue. John, you were
uh
this is very important. This this goes
to the issue of what was agreed in
advance and therefore what the purpose
of this meeting was for the Russian side
and for the American side, why it was so
much shorter than scheduled and why Vice
President Vance wasn't there at all. He
was in England as official guest of the
uh British foreign minister. These are
all significant, let's call them
corroborating bits of evidence. I
believe my Russian sources are right.
There was an agreement in principle in
advance. Trump says, "Give me a
ceasefire so I can get out of this war."
Russian side says, "We will go along
with the idea that if we give you a you
show us, you're getting out of the war.
We will reinforce the line that if the
war is lost, it will be the Europeans
and Zalinski who will have lost it, not
you.
Russia will be agreeing Russia and the
United States do not want to fight a war
against each other,
at least not in Europe.
And you have to listen to what Trump has
to say about China in the Hannity
interview with Fox a few minutes after
that press conference. And what the
Russian side understand to be the
American position
was set out in a script written for
Hegsth at a NATO council meeting. I
believe it was on Thursday. Essentially,
and we've talked about it before, the
Russian view is the American view is
the US are not going to fund and not
going to arm directly the Ukrainian war.
If the UK Europeans can buy stuff and
want to fight on against the USRussian
agreement in principle on a ceasefire
and lose, that's their lookout.
The US is not going to bail out.
I'd like to introduce because I want to
show that clip again. You and I are um
on the very same uh wavelength in terms
of what what really is important here.
I'd like to show a clip uh of a recent
interview with JD Vance in which he says
essentially what you just said. Uh so uh
please everyone have a listen.
We're done with the funding of the
Ukraine war business. Fundamentally this
is something where the president needs
to force uh President Putin and
President Zalinsky really to sit down to
figure out their differences. We have a
lot of economic points of leverage and
we're willing to use those to bring
about peace and that was a big thing
that happened. your point about weapons,
what we said to the Europeans is is
simply, first of all, this is in your
neck of the woods. This is in your back
door. You guys have got to step up and
take a bigger role in this thing. We're
done with the funding of the Ukraine war
business. We want to bring about a
peaceful settlement to this thing. We
want to stop the killing, but Americans,
I think, are sick of continuing to send
their money, their tax dollars to this
particular conflict. But if the
Europeans want to step up and actually
buy the weapons from American producers,
we're okay with that, but we're not
going to fund it ourselves anymore.
Okay. I I I have to interject here with
the question, Sean, because it's I got
to be in my bind about this. Uh now and
before I highlight you know what I the
the inherent contradiction between the
positions articulated in that video I
just want to remind people that back in
February US Secretary of Defense Pete
Hgse I believe it was in Brussels gave a
speech to uh his European counterparts
and NATO officials about uh this
division of labor between the United
States and European Union. And he
whereas in Van Vance in that um that
clip we just saw is kind of
non-committal about selling weapons. He
says look if the Europeans want to buy
our weapons and give it to Ukraine we're
okay with that. Hexath was actually I
thought more assertive and he basically
said you need to drastically increase
your military spending and you need to
buy weapons including from us and give
them to Ukraine so you will assume the
responsibility for continuing that fight
whereas we will uh redirect our
resources and efforts uh to the people's
republic of China and you know other uh
perceived enemies for for example Iran.
Yes. So, I just I I can't um I can't
believe that people take seriously the
idea that that the Russ that the the
Trump administration wants to stop the
killing, but is encouraging Europeans,
even insisting. That's the way I read
Hex's speech that they drastically
increase their military spending, buy
weapons from the United States, and then
transfer them to Ukraine. How is that
consistent with their stated desire to
stop the killing in Ukraine?
The consistency is explained, Dimmitri,
if you accept the unstated US position
that the war has been lost
and that nothing the Europeans can do
will save the Ukrainian regime in Kiev.
Uh Hex repeated um the line in a speech
last Thursday. I'll read it out. is
almost the same things together says
heath but this wasn't written by him
he's incapable was written by Colby
Elbridge under secretary of defense for
policy that's where the brains start and
stop in that in the Pentagon okay
together and I'm reading looking down at
my notes we can establish a division of
labor that maximizes our comparative
advantages in Europe and Pacific
respectively
division of labor. US will concentrate
on war with China. Um if if the
Europeans want to fight Russia on the
Ukrainian battlefield,
Vance and Higgs offer to sell them the
weapons but not guarantee that they will
win the war. They will lose the war. But
the Russian side is saying, "All right,
we've heard that. We've heard this. This
is a strategy of sequencing. you want to
move on. We've told you that the base
primary causes of the war, the root
causes are the advance of NATO in order
to destroy us. The Ukrainian platform
being a a battlefield to destroy us.
Therefore, we will give you a ceasefire.
You prove to us that the war is over for
you. You will not secretly
facilitate the platform and call it a
European war. No, no, no. My Russian
sources, well, we can entertain a lots
of skepticism about that, but let's
understand how they think and why they
think this was a good outcome and why it
was so short.
Okay. The Russians think
that the US side has agreed to the
incorporation of all four regions plus
Crimea.
First, second, some form of security
guarantee that embodies demilitarization
of the Ukraine from Russian point of
view and protection of what's left of
the Ukraine from a European and American
point of view.
Um and that that might be Higgse added
in his speech a nonNATO
mission which may have Europeans in it
may have non-Europeans in it. um the the
the the
essential thing then that's left out
because it's Vance's job in England
to convince the Europeans starting with
the British
that they better sign on to the terms
that Trump and Putin have agreed or they
can face the war alone and lose it
because That's the
the the the deal if you like is that
Putin will let Trump off the hook for
having lost the war.
He will give him the grandstand for
having won the peace. Both of these are
baloney. Okay, we know that. Everybody
knows that. But what Putin is quite
right. Trump is the only possibility
presenting itself in Washington DC of a
solution
that's less destructive, less violent
um than the one the Europeans have in
mind than the one uh chance the mini
chancellor of Germany has in mind and so
on. So that doesn't mean that from a
empire make America make the empire
great again point of view that the US is
abandoning NATO or abandoning the
reinforcement and rearmament of both
Germany the the new redeployment of
nuclear weapons um all the way up the
northern front across the Arctic front
down the far eastern front to the China
border not to mention the southern
border
with the war against Iran, the war
against Palestine, the war um that the
US is beginning to develop in the South
Caucuses u I in Armenia and Azabaj. And
that doesn't mean that from a Russian
point of view um that there's any
illusion about two things. One is that
the US is an expanding imperial state
that threatens Russia. No doubt this is
not a conversion there. two that
anything the US signs can be trusted. No
belief there either. But on the other
hand, here's a test of
Putin and Trump face to face for the
first time in with Trump being in power
now to establish whether what he says is
what he'll do. And you heard the the
voice of the reporter before she asked
the question of you going to stop if you
ask Mr. Putin to whether he's going to
stop killing civilians before that. And
by the way, Putin was speaking in
English to to Trump, he speaks pretty
good English and he certainly
understands English. The question was um
are you ready for a ceasefire? And
that's a a crucial question which we've
talked about before. The European demand
was as expressed by General Kellogg
representing Trump who wasn't allowed to
be at this conference. Um there were
other US generals in Anchorage, General
Kaine from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and
General Grinch Grinke,
the new Supreme Allied Commander of
Europe. They were the generals, not
somebody like Kellogg.
What the
what the U what what is understood here
is that the US side has to prove that
it's walking away from this war
definitively
and that a ceasefire is something
Russia's willing to offer with these
conditionals.
So the immediate sorry go on
when you talk about conditionals I did
not hear you mention the issue of
uh Ukraine's membership in NATO is it
your understanding from your Russian
sources information available to you
that that's part of this deal that the
United States will uh object to veto uh
obstruct Ukraine's membership in NATO or
have they as you understand it parked
that issue?
No doubt about this. I I just read it to
you exactly what he says said on
Thursday.
The United States does not believe that
NATO membership for Ukraine is a
realistic and outcome of a negotiated
settlement. Instead, any security
guarantee must be backed by capable
European and non-European troops
deployed under a nonNATO mission. So no
question from a Russian point of view,
if the US is telling the truth, if the
Secretary of Defense can be believed
when he tells it to the NATO council,
no NATO membership. But that's a
formality to the extent that a Ukrainian
battle platform has been constructed
without NATO membership. And that's what
the wars being fought to stop. So I'm
putting it to you that the Russian
sources believe
that Trump
sincerity in agreeing to each of these
provisions, no NATO incorporation of the
four regions plus Crimea, security
guarantees for the Ukraine and and very
important no secondary sanctions against
India and China, no attempt to destroy
the international oil trade and the
abandonment, the non- enforcement of
primary sanctions against Russia. The
sanctions war is to be relieved. Now,
all of these things can't happen all at
once. They aren't likely to be written
down even now. But what happened in
Anchorage was a test of one thing the
Russian side and particularly President
Putin was not sure about. What happens
between
pres foreign minister Lavrov for example
giving u foreign minister secretary of
state Rubio a very clear set of terms
and messages to take back to Washington.
What happens? What happens when
President Putin welcomes Mr. Vitkov in
the Kremlin and gives him a very clear
set of terms to take back to Washington?
What happens? Answer. For the last
months, what the Russian side has seen
is on the one hand uh Trump says one
thing and then within a few hours he
says another thing. He contradicts
himself
as he did on the way in in the plane on
the way into Anchorage. He said, "I want
to see a ceasefire, an immediate one.
I'll be disappointed if it if it hasn't.
I'm not going to." And then he also
says, "I'm not at the press conference.
I'm not going to allow the Europeans to
tell me what to do. I mean, the
contradictions are obvious." So what
needed to happen
was the Russian side says to Vitcov,
"Okay, you take your message back, but
we want to hear it from Trump. We'll
tell Trump what we've just told you, Mr.
Vitkov, and we want to hear what he has
to say. If you are g want a ceasefire,
we'll give it to you. But you give us an
end of war for the US. That implies no
more intelligence sharing for attacks on
Russia, no more arms supplies,
direct or indirect. Now, that's not yet
clear. Therefore, the ceasefire isn't
yet clear. But what is clear, and it's
made very clear in the Hannity
interview, is Trump's agreed not to
impose secondary sanctions on India and
China.
in the coming hours. He said weeks.
Second, the issue of non-inforcement of
primary sanctions is up in the air. So,
we're in a testing period. Now, why was
the meeting so short? Because it was
President Putin testing whether Trump
could hear what he had to say. Now in a
2hour 45minute
session
remember what happened and didn't
happen. It was scheduled according to
Yuri Ushakov's announcement in cre on
the website of the Kremlin not not on
the White House schedule. There was to
be a one- on-one round of talks. Putin
interpreter Trump interpreter. That
didn't happen. Instead there's three on
three. Trump didn't want to be in the
room, couldn't be in the room with Putin
by himself. Instead, there's Rubio
and Vitokov
a come on the Russian side uh Lavrov and
Ushakov and there's nothing else. There
was to be an extended delegation. There
were 16 US officials among them all the
business the money bags that Trump um
has hired as as cabinet officers. Vitcov
as an emissary, Lutnik as a commerce
secretary, Bessent as the treasury
secretary. These are all the the men who
um want business and are will and can
discuss relief of sanctions for Russia.
They're all there but they don't
participate. In fact, on the Russian
side, their equivalent money bag is Kir
Ditriv, representative of the oligarchs.
Dimmitri promotes himself at all these
meetings, but he was utterly isolated
exactly as Labrov organized in Saudi
Arabia uh months ago. Um this time
Demetri dematerializes
um in this meeting. What happens is in 2
hours and 45 minutes you can subtract
30% of that for translation.
You've got about an hour and a half a
bit more for discussions. And guess who
did all the talking? I mean you heard
Putin reading a speech for 8 out of 12
minutes. He knew Putin knows, everybody
knows that Trump can't sit still for
more than about five minutes. And the
body language analysis of what happens
on his face even in that press
conference is very interesting.
He couldn't cope with doing it oneonone.
Remember, he doesn't read. He doesn't
have a very good grip on the terms. He
knew sea star was in his head, but he
needed the accompiment of the of the
two. And so what you had was Putin
stretching his patience.
Beyond breaking. It's beyond me to say
that Trump said, "I've had enough of
this. Let's go home. We've agreed. I've
listened to the guy. We'll have a nice
think, but I don't need anymore. I don't
want to have lunch in Anchorage. I don't
need mying officials. If they want to
make money, let them exchange their
bribes. Let them enrich my son on the
crypto companies on in in Dubai. All of
that's out of here. I'm going home.
Bingo. This thing ends in in in top
speed. Why? Because it was a test from a
Russian side of what Trump could hear.
It was a test for Trump of what Putin
would say and it was a test from Trump's
point of view. Were the Russians to be
relied on not to defeat the US in the
Ukraine? That's what he cares about. He
doesn't want to see be the responsible
president for an abandonment of Saigon.
He doesn't want to be the president for
the abandonment of Kabell. He wants the
Europeans, if they're stupid enough to
pay Trump to lose this war, he wants
them to blame to be blamed for
themselves. And so he sent Vance. Why
isn't Vance there? Vance has been there
and was announced to be the head of the
delegation supporting Trump uh in the
American press. He wasn't there. And
nobody in the American press dains to
tell us why he wasn't. Well, you know
where he was? He was quotes having a
fishing holiday in the Cotswwells with
the foreign minister Lami.
That's not exactly a holiday,
right? So what Vance is doing Go on.
Oh, no. I Please, please continue your
thought about Vance and I just want to
in my my reading of it is that Vance's
job is the important one. He doesn't
have to sit and listen. He can listen a
bit longer than Trump. That was Trump's
problem. He had to sit and listen.
Okay. Right. The Russian people can sit
and listen to to Put in for four hours
every December. An incredible
performance on the president's part and
an incredible performance on the Russian
people's part. But Trump doesn't have
five minutes of patience to listen. So
Vance's really important job is to
mobilize the British
to lead the way in Europe for getting
Zalinski
on board for the implementation of a
ceasefire that lets the US get out of
the war
and brings the curtain down from a Trump
point of view.
Right? And that's an exchange of signals
of trust
which have yet to be proved. But this is
how we started. That's this is why
the Russian sources I've talked to to
through the night believe that this was
a significant success for Putin
and allowing a significant walk away
success for Trump
which they're not publishing
because the you look at the Western
press Trump fails to get a ceasefire out
of Put in fail fail fail. No, not from a
Russian point of view.
But there's obviously
after this years of distrust of the
Americans advancing to destroy Russia,
this is the best bet the Russians have
got to stop that on one battlefield
without illusions about all the others.
Right. So just uh to uh very important
point you made about uh the Hannity
interview. I just want to tell our
audience exactly what was said. Uh Trump
told Fox News Hannity that he would hold
off on imposing tariffs on China for
buying Russian oil after making progress
with Putin. He apparently Trump did not
mention India, another major buyer of
Russian crude which has been slapped
with a total of 50% tariff on US
imports. Um, and the quote is from that
interview, because of what happened
today, I think I don't have to think
about that now. Uh, referring to Chinese
tariffs. And he goes on and says, Trump,
I may have to think about it in two
weeks or 3 weeks or something, but we
don't have to think about that right
now. And of course, the deadline for
imposing those tariffs, those secondary
sanctions has passed.
Uh, yes.
Question about it. Now, um, just another
observation. I don't think you need to
comment on this, so if you would like
to, please do so. I imagine, it's
interesting that he took Rubio into this
meeting. Uh, because I imagine that
Rubio, first of all, we all know Rubio
to be a frauding at the mouth neoon. Uh,
and probably somebody in that uh, you
know, cabinet who uh, doesn't want to
see uh, the United States withdraw. I
don't I'm not convinced that Rubio
actually wants that. But in any event,
um I imagine this is probably the first
time that Rubio has actually met
Vladimir Putin. Uh I I I can't imag I
can't think of a circumstance in the
past where Rubio would have had an
opportunity to sit down and talk to
Putin one-on-one. So um perhaps uh
perhaps this has had some positive
impact on Rubio's view of this conflict,
but that remains to be seen. What I
really want to talk about next, John, um
is this uh commentary from Trump in the
in the few minutes that he spoke at the
press conference uh with Vladimir Putin.
I believe we had a very productive
meeting. There were many many points
that we agreed on, most of them, I would
say, a couple of big ones that we
haven't quite gotten there, but we've
made some headway.
So, uh there's no deal until there's a
deal. I will call up NATO in a little
while. I will call up uh the various
people that I think are appropriate and
I'll of course call up President
Zalinsky and tell them about today's
meeting. It's ult ultimately up to them.
They're going to have to agree with what
Marco and Steve and some of the great
people from the Trump administration.
Now, uh you you heard him say, John, uh
that it's ultimately up to them.
Exactly.
I I just find that comical. I'm sorry to
be, you know, disrespectful of Trump.
It's certainly not the first time I've
been disrespectful of Trump, nor will it
be the last, but I find that comical. I
mean, as Trump himself said in the White
House a few months ago, you ain't got no
cards, uh, Vimir Zilinski. Um, and you
know, his government is completely and
utterly dependent upon, uh, you know,
American military intelligence and
economic aid. Uh so uh it sounds like
he's basically at least claiming to be
conferring upon Zilinsky a veto power
over whatever deal was struck with the
Russian Federation. Uh so what do you
make of this comment? First of all, is
he just, you know, trying to is Trump
simply trying to perpetuate the myth
that Ukraine remains a sovereign state
or is he really
uh effectively conferring upon his
vassel uh because I think that's the
best way to view Zilinsky visa v Trump a
veto power over whatever deal he has
struck with the uh the Russian president
and and and if and if he if if
effectively Zalinsky can veto this today
if he can tank the deal, why would
anybody think that he isn't going to do
that? I mean, didn't they just issue a
statement uh Zilinski after meeting with
the Europeans, which this maximalist,
you know, fantastically ludicrous demand
that Russia pay reparations and withdraw
from all of the territory and Ukraine
will be a part of NATO and uh and who
know, you know, and the kitchen sink and
Bob's your uncle. I mean, every
imaginable demand that Ukraine could.
Oh, and no lifting of sanctions on
Russia. That was the position. And
Zalinsky has consistently been
maximalist. So, it just seems to me that
if he in fact does have the ability, if
he's being given the authority by the
Trump administration to tank the deal,
it's a virtual certainty that he will.
Uh, and I mean, what do you think about
all that? Well, you you're a first rate
cross-examining attorney here, Dimmitri,
and and you've just put uh well, Trump
put himself in the witness box, and
you've you've torn torn his testimony
apart. Um how does it make sense? Uh and
are you, sir, offering a veto to the man
you considered, as you said, Dimmitri,
to have had no cards. And the only cards
you've got are the ones I gave you. the
only cards you will have other are the
ones the Europeans will buy from me to
give you answer he's uh from a Russian
point of view at this point of the
testing
and we have passed a stage which we
hadn't passed before these two
presidents have just met
we
what's happening is Trump's preparing
himself for ultim Ultimately, chaps, you
hit the right adverb there. That's
exactly what he said. That's a
disclaimer. You chaps want to go on
fighting. Um uh I you can buy the stuff
from me, but I'm out. If you lose,
I'm not going to bail you out.
So
in my judgment,
the Russian side interprets that to mean
he accepts that Putin is offering a
ceasefire
and terms which weren't negotiated but
which are inherently conditional on
Trump and Vance obtaining from the
Europeans the squeeze on Zalinski. If
they can't and don't
scheme fails,
ceasefire doesn't come into operation.
Trump has offered Putin
everything in return for Putin offering
everything Trump said he wanted
ceasefire to start with and it fails.
Why? because Zalinski and the British
and the French and particularly the
Germans refuse. So Trump says, "I'm
just contact my front office. You can
buy all you want, but if you lose, you
lose by yourself, not me. I'm on my way
to fighting Iran, to fighting Iran
through Pakistan, that direction.
Fighting Iran from the Azaban direction.
I'm on my way to China. I'm on my way to
sequencing some other wars where the US
has a bigger interest. Meanwhile, what
Putin has achieved for his allies. Time.
Time. It's anou that's not a bankable
IOU. The terms of agreement to continue
to talk are as vit once falsely promised
Iran. The longer you talk, the less we
attack the with secondary sanctions. He
promised India, he promised Modi, he
promised Gi. Now next week, Mr. Jay
Shanka the foreign minister of India
will lead a very large and important
Indian delegation to Moscow for the the
annual IndianRussian
uh intergovernment economic commission.
But the headline in India is this is to
discuss rupee trade. What's rupee trade?
It's the solution
of the problem that the central bank
governor Nabi favored by Putin has
refused to solve which blocks the
ability of Russia and ch and India to go
on oil trading despite
US secondary sanctions. India and Russia
need time to solve a problem that from
Indian point of view. Naviola and other
favorites of president of the Kremlin in
economic administration have refused to
settle until now. Now is now. Next week,
there's a serious chance that with the
time Putin has gotten out of Trump now,
the Indians and Russians will come to a
better agreement of how to trade without
dollars
and how to protect the oil trade from
the secondary sanctions threat, the
primary sanctions threat, and from
warfare from attacking tankers, which is
what the Anglo-American
uh special services have been doing. So
from a let's call it proutin or Kremlin
circle um environment you see this is a
very considerable achievement in
politics you know just as well as as our
audience does politics is about very
short-term successes and if this is
three weeks or a month or two week or
two weeks or less or more a lot's been
learned
a lot's been learned with a relatively
little amount of concession on Putin's
part. Which is why, of course,
the neocon
press uh why the Ukraine press, why the
ang the pro-NATO press have have said
Trump lost Putin won. Well, no, it's not
quite that from a Russian point of view,
Putin won. But I hope it's clear from a
limited conditional point of view, this
is what had to be understood by the
president of Russia and he had to buy it
by making the kinds of concessions that
allowed put Trump to grandstand but that
in principle this summit could have
happened months ago.
Right? I mean, the ludicrous thing about
them saying Trump lost is that the war
has already lost and it was really lost
even before Trump the White House. So,
it's just a question of how are you
going to clean up this mess. It's not a
question of who's won and who's lost.
That's already been resolved. Which
brings me to my next question. Uh, you
know, we haven't talked about the state
of the battlefield, which to a large
degree must be driving all of this,
certainly influencing the behavior of
the various uh uh belligerents. um what
is your assessment and more importantly
what do you believe the Russian
military's assessment is of the state of
the battlefield in Ukraine today
broadly speaking
well broadly speaking um
there is an acceleration
of operational movement westward it's no
longer tactical advances
uh small numbers was uh moving across
ground gaining small amounts of
territory. Now there are very large
amounts of territory are being gained uh
as at the operational level that's
increasingly larger numbers of troops,
drones, air and um ground coordination
required are advancing into uh the
so-called demilitarized zone area of the
Ukraine. So, Deit Nea Petrrosk Sunumi
region um and so forth. At the same
time,
we have to note that since February when
President Putin offered to uh suspend
the electric war campaign, Russia has
not been attacking rail junctions and
the power that fuel uh that that uh
enables uh Ukrainian trains to run. um
from Poland into Levan and and Eiev in
the west and uh towards the front in the
east. That seems seems to me to be now
changing with increasing frequency of
Russian attacks on Ukrainian rail hubs,
road hubs, and the ability to to prevent
um increased improved reinforcement of
the Ukrainian forces to the front. So,
the front is continuing to move west at
a faster rate than before. the the daily
defense bulletin I read um shows a level
of casualties announced or losses
announced by the Russian defense
ministry around 1,300 a day. Ignore what
Trump has to say about casualties and
don't have to believe what the defense
ministry announces as as the Ukrainian
casualties. What I'm saying is the
numbers show a high and accelerating
rate of loss
as the Russian forces move westward. Now
there's a very good independent to some
extent pro- Ukrainian Hungarian military
officer Mark Takash who every couple of
weeks or a month analyzes
the record mostly opensourced Ukrainian
record of tactical and operational
uh warfare on the ground at each part of
the front from Sunumi down to Odessa.
And I recommend that folks look at this
because this is a an infantry officer,
more not pro-Russian, using mostly
Ukrainian sources identifying the the
trends that I've just summarized.
Without his evidence, I wouldn't be
quite so confident. It would be
propaganda. Takash doesn't produce
propaganda. He produces a pretty decent
account of what is happening on the
battlefield. I hope that answers your
question. If things continue as they
are,
the Ukrainian ability for command and
control at operational level, colonel
level
are is disintegrating fast.
So, uh certainly to for what it's worth,
I'm not a military expert. Uh I I
completely concur with what you've had
to say and you added some uh facts to my
understanding of the current state of
the battlefield. So this brings me to my
last question. In light of this rapidly
deteriorating situation, John, for the
Ukrainian forces, I I don't mean to
laugh. It's actually tragic what has
happened to the country. But what I
what's causing me to chuckle is the
disparity between what you've just
described, which I think is an entirely
fair assessment, and the maximalist
position of the Zilinski regime backed
apparently by all major European
governments. It seems that that is also
their position. How perhaps here I'm
asking you to psychoanalyze but how do
you explain the fact that they are being
so uh you know maximalist in their
demands visa v the Russian Federation
given the rapidly deteriorating
situation on the ground?
Well um I think part of the answer to
that been given by the Ukrainians
themselves. uh
Alex Aristovich who used to be the adi
an adviser in the presidential office of
Zilinski publishes a daily blog. Uh he
he he puffs it full of personal
philosophy which is not so interesting
to me. But he clearly says that um that
none of the candidates
who are proposed by the outside powers
or by the Ukrainian press to be
alternative to Zalinski.
um General Salujni the ambassador in
London and former president Paris Shanka
um who remains in the Ukraine and some
other possibilities none of them
represent a significant change of line
so he's warning that the attempts to
replace Zalinski with these alternatives
aren't alternatives at all
won't make any difference.
Therefore, um um I think he's saying,
but I I won't put words in his mouth,
and he hasn't used his own mouth to say
this, to see what uh another Ukrainian
who's on the Russian side, Alleg Sarov,
who's based in Crimea, whom the
Ukrainian regime tried to murder a
couple of years back. Alleg Sarov
publishes also a telegram platform and
analyzes
um the campaigns to so-called reform
um Zalinski
um has until relatively recently taken
the view that Zalinski will survive all
these um assaults on his credibility is
uh
the the anti-corruption campaign and so
forth because there's no alternative.
Okay. If there's no alternative,
the you you're fighting, don't you? So,
I don't know. I'm not a I'm I I used to
watch Westerns, as did everybody. What
happens when the the Red Indians, to
describe them un politically in
incorrectly, uh attack uh a a wagon
train? Well, you circle the wagons. You
jump behind them as cover and you poke
your rifle out at the approaching
attackers. You circle the wagons and you
don't ask yourself, "Am I going to
survive this?" You do the best you can
to survive. Well, um the fact is, as
we've just agreed, the Ukra on the
battlefield, the Ukraine isn't
surviving. It's it's gradually being
defeated and annihilated towards
capitulation. The alternatives to the
Zalinski
aren't viable.
So what's Trump doing that is worth a
chuckle? Well, the answer is I I just
hold him up. Presidential approval
rating. Okay. Presidential approval
rating.
Nothing Trump's doing
has lifted his negative net negative
disapproval for months and weeks. All of
this Nobel Peace Prize winning effort to
make peace and save lives in the world
hasn't convinced a single US voter to
shift in his direction. Okay? He has he
he's got to face the fact that he must
therefore avoid the blame. He must avoid
the stab in the back inheritance of
having lost the war. That's dangerous.
He could the the negative approval
rating of his handling of the Ukraine
war is about -6%.
Minus only his negative approval for
inflation is worse. Okay. So what's he
going to do? He's got to circle the
wagons and make sure that the only
person in the middle of the wagon circle
is Zalinski and any European stupid
enough to put himself there. So Vance is
in England to make sure that Starmer
isn't that stupid. Whether Chancellor
Mance wants to be that stupid is of no
interest to Trump Vance and the boys
because they'll sell him all the
weapons. Man has obligingly offered 50
billion uh euros worth of investment
fund to buy. Okay,
that's it. Circle the wagons. Keep
uttering irrationalities until you
haven't got any more bullets. um and uh
make sure that no one, not a single US
voter blames Trump for stabbing the
Ukraine in the back and defeating
um the the forces of freedom and all the
other nonsense that uh that that have
been defeated in the Ukraine. He must
avoid the stab in the back. He must
avoid more disapproval than US voters
are already giving him. And Look, this
is a president who's just lost his war
in Washington DC for Christ's sake. He
may have won his military invasion of
Los Angeles, but he tried to invade the
DC police force and militarized the
control of the District of Columbia
this past week. And he lost in court. He
can't replace the the the police chief
of the district in which he's the
principal resident. Well, well, well.
Right. For what it's worth, John, you
know, my own uh best guess as to why the
Europeans and Zilinsky remain maximalist
is that they are so politically invested
in victory that if they were to exceed
to Russia's terms, even half of what
Russia is demanding, they understand
that they'd be turfed out of office in
the blink of an eye. uh if the and not
because the European people are
determined to press on to victory. It's
because a lot of Europeans will say you
sold us a fake bill of goods. You've
been telling us since February 2022 that
Ukraine was going to win this war.
You've caused us to invest massive
amounts of money in this war. You have
uh fueled a conflict which you could
have resolved long ago that has killed
hundreds of thousands, millions of
people probably at this stage. You're a
bunch of liars. you're corrupt
wararmongers and we're we're fed up with
you. And I think that that's ultimately
what is going on here. That's my best
guess at any rate. I can't read their
minds, but it seems to me that they are
uh desperately trying to uh uh pro uh to
defer judgment day for as long as
possible. uh preferably at a point where
they're no longer uh young enough to do
politics, so they're retired from
Well, there's certainly that, but
they're playing constituency politics.
They want to, yes, they may be losing on
that battlefield, but they want to
preserve the arms builders as
constituents. They want to keep building
um uh and financing a war against an
enemy. uh they want to preserve those
votes in those regions or all of those
things and if we und if we took each
country Italy, France, Portugal, Spain,
uh the UK, uh the Netherlands one by
one, the the constituencies would be
different. But yes, they can't suddenly
say we see the light. Why? Because their
propaganda war has been won. There isn't
a single significant
um mainstream press in in any of the
European states that I can think of
that's anti-war. There's no anti-war
movement in the United States of of a
significant power the way there was
during the Vietnam War. So um
the the uh they've got to somehow
preserve differently from one country to
another one political setup from another
um avoiding the blame for losing
um and somehow u cope with the
propaganda defeat. It can't be a defeat
because they keep saying
that that they've won.
That's right. I I'm I mean you and I and
our audience are in the unique position
of not believing any of that stuff and
finding it impossible to believe that
people go on believing it. But the fact
is we're the minority.
and what we believe and can argue and
substantiate as you've done uh Dimmitri
with your other guests on each of these
fronts. What we can show is is not
politically powerful in each of these
states. We wish it were but it isn't.
Yeah. You know, on just a on a closing
note, uh I was reading the Guardians
coverage this morning. It pains me to
have to read that newspaper, but I force
myself to do so because it's kind of
representative of the so-called liberal
wing of the mainstream press in uh in
the English- speakaking world. And uh it
was just implacably hostile. The tenor
of the coverage was implacably hostile
to any peace deal between uh Russia and
the United States. Uh and that's
supposed to be the progressive end of
the political spectrum in the West. So,
um I completely concur with your
assessment, John. As always, it is a uh
a pleasure to talk to you. Thank you
very much for your fine insights and uh
we uh will be watching closely in the
weeks ahead to see whether or not this u
this mission that JD Vance has been sent
upon will be a successful one. So, uh
thanks again.
Thank you, Dimmitri. Good luck to us.
Good luck to all of humanity. Uh and uh
we're signing off today.
