id: nPxjIWL-8Ck
title: American Democracy Is Collapsing, And This Man Predicted It | Aaron Bastani Meets Joseph Stiglitz
uploader: Novara Media
channel: Novara Media
upload_date: 20250615
duration: 57:24
view_count: 330966
like_count: 7530
categories: ['News & Politics']
tags: ['socialism', 'politics', 'Novara Media', 'Novara', 'current affairs']
webpage_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nPxjIWL-8Ck
description: ```Support our work:
http://novara.media/support


Get tickets to our live event:
https://link.dice.fm/N9636716d4fd?dice_id=N9636716d4fd


During the 2008 economic crisis, the Obama administration had an opportunity to enact widespread market reforms. Instead, they bailed out the banks and laid the groundwork for mass inequality and a political culture that has given us a second Trump administration. 

This weekâ€™s guest was in the room where those crucial decisions were made, and argued that financial institutions should not be able to escape the consequences of their recklessness. 

Joseph Stiglitz is a Nobel Prize-winning economist and author of 'The Road To Freedom: Economics and The Good Society'.

He sat down with Aaron to discuss the collapse of American democracy, his relationship with Milton Friedman and whether China is actually a socialist country.

00:00 Intro
02.40 Reflections on Globalization
08:37 Obama & Predicting MAGA 
19:29 Milton Friedman
25:07 Adam Smith
33:55 Does The US Need A New FDR?
41:34 Debt & Collapse of Neo-Liberalism
46:44 Where Should The Money Come From?
51:01 What Can China Teach Us?
```

transcript:
You know, Obama's uh chief of staff uh
famously said uh we should not let a
crisis go to waste. But Obama did let it
go to waste. Uh it was a patchwork
resuscitating the role of the banks
uh not really reforming
uh our society in any significant way.
um
he let that moment pass. Uh we are now
in another moment where I think uh what
is at stake is much much more because
Trump has trampled on our democracy
on our rule of law and we now realize
the fragility of our political system of
our democracy.
uh we uh realize that our systems of
checks and balances are they may hold.
We hope they hold, but they're too
fragile. We shouldn't be we shouldn't be
relying on prayer
at this point, but that's what we are uh
relying on right now.
We've had some fantastic guests here on
Downstream over the years, but today is
the very first time that I'm speaking to
a Nobel Prize winner. Joseph Stiglets
won the 2001 Nobel Prize for economics.
He is however not just an amazing
mathematician and economist. He is, I
think, one of the best communicators in
the English language on these issues in
the last 30 40 years. Globalization and
its discontents made him a whistleblower
from inside the establishment when it
came to globalization and the likes of
the IMF, the World Bank. Mr. Stiglets,
more than anyone else, turned those
acronyms into household names, a
shorthand for growing global inequality.
And more recently in 2008, he was inside
the room when some of the most
profoundly important decisions were made
about banking bailouts and what America
does responding to the biggest financial
crisis since 1929. So, lots to discuss
over the last 30 years, over the last 15
years, and even more recently in the
aftermath of Donald Trump's election
last year. I hope you enjoy this
interview. Professor Joseph Stiglets,
welcome to Downstream. Nice to be here.
We like to use formality here at Navar
Media. It's great to have you on. Our
first Nobel Prize winner. Oh, thank you.
So, uh, quite the accolade. You are
obviously best known for a book written
a while back now, globalization, it
discontents. We're talking about this
though, the road to freedom, economics,
and the good society. Uh, I will of
course want to talk about some of your
previous work as well. And in fact, I'd
like to start with that. you were the
outstanding voice with regards to
critiquing globalization at its high
point um late 1990s early 2000s. Are we
now living in a moment where you kind of
reflect on that moment almost with
affection? You know, things were working
a little bit. There was global growth,
there were rising living standards for
the west. Do you sort of think maybe I
was a bit too harsh on globalization?
No, I more uh I I don't like to say
things like I told you so, but uh I
think what I said there uh was really a
precursor to some of the political and
economic problems uh we have today.
uh I was I wrote the book after uh
coming out of being chief economist of
the World Bank and I was looking at it
through a particular lens of developing
countries and uh I was writing and
saying you know those global
arrangements were unfair to developing
countries, emerging markets, they were
unfair to workers in America. They were
agreements that were based basically on
uh corporate interest and financial
interest in the advanced countries and
particularly uh in the United States.
And uh I worried that a lot of the
economic analysis on which it was uh
predicated globalization
uh made no sense. Uh there were ideas
like uh trickle down economics, just
make sure the pie is bigger and
everybody's going to be better off. No
theory behind that. In fact, economic
theory said that opening up trade could
actually lead to lower wages of workers
in a bank's countries. Um they were
predicated on notions that uh free
movement of speculative capital would
stabilize
uh the global economy. And it seems to
me pretty evident if you looked at
history that
capital slashes around in a very uh
destabilizing way. And they were
predicated on the idea that
uh if you opened up free trade, yes, you
would lose jobs,
but uh new jobs would be created. It was
a simplistic view about job creation
particularly in the context of
developing countries. We all now know
also in developed countries that uh
creating jobs is much more difficult.
And too often what I saw was that you
moved workers from low productivity
import competing sectors to zero
productivity unemployment. And now it's
not a way to create wealth and and make
people better off. So there's so many uh
aspects of what was going on then
that sort of foreshadow the troubles but
the troubles not just in the developing
countries and emerging markets troubles
in the advanced countries. A quick
interruption. As you may know here at
Navar Media, particularly with
Downstream, we like to take these
conversations that we have in this room
at Navara Towers out to you the people.
We've done it before with Elon Pap with
Yianis Farrafakis.
Live events. It's great to do them face
to face. We are now adding to that
roster Jean Luke Melon. If you're not
familiar with Mr. Melanchaw, he's the
leader of Le France in Sumis. think the
French Bernie Sanders. I'm speaking to
Jeanluke on the 25th of June at Earth in
Hacknne. We'll be talking about the
future of the French left, whether they
can stop the likes of Bardella and
Marine Le Pen, and far more besides he
is a truly extraordinary figure. He just
missed out on the runoff of the French
presidency by 1%. His party is now the
largest in the French Parliament by
seats. He has remade, recalibrated the
political conversation in France in a
way that frankly very few people saw
coming just 3, four, five years ago.
What can we learn from Mr. Melon Shaw
and Leaf France in Sumese here in the
UK? Do we need a new left party? Is
Labor finished with or can people on the
left have influence inside what is the
party of government? Big questions with
a big figure. Join me and John Luke
Melanchaw on June the 25th at Earth in
Hackne. Buy the tickets. The link is in
the description below. And if you can't
do that, if you can't for whatever
reason make it to Glorious Hackne in
late June, maybe you're on holiday. I
don't know. I won't hold it against you.
You can still support our work here at
Navar Media. We are trying to get a
thousand new supporters over June. We're
doing really well. Why don't you join
them though? click that other link in
the description below. Of course, you
can do both. You can come to the event
and support us as well, but either will
do. Thanks so much. So, it sounds like
you see a straight line between that
diagnosis you had of globalization at
the turn of the century and political
events in the United States and in this
country as well subsequent to 2016.
Did you think then 20 years ago, 25
years ago, that the United States would
produce a Trump-like political figure or
was, like you've said, the emphasis was
more on global south developing
countries? And and if if you didn't
think it 25 years ago, when did it kind
of click with you that actually American
politics could be profoundly disrupted
in a way that hadn't been the case in
your in your lifetime as a result of
this global economic settlement?
The realization that we were in a moment
of democratic fragility, yeah, uh began
to dawn on me uh in the 2008 financial
crisis.
And uh as I looked at the way we handled
that
uh it was so clear that
uh we what we were doing in the United
States was reflecting the interest of
the financial markets and alienating
everybody else in our society. Uh I was
engaged in that moment in a number of
political de discussions. Uh I was for
instance on a a phone call at the very
beginning uh when before uh Obama had
gotten elected. Uh it was during the
final stages of the campaign and the
question was uh how should the Democrats
respond to the crisis that began in
September of uh 2008?
And there were all these uh people from
the big banks and financial markets on
the uh conference call and I was one of
the lonely voices saying, you know, you
ought to be also worrying about American
workers and American homeowners who are
about to lose their homes.
and if we just focus on the banks, it
won't be a good recovery and it will be
politically disastrous.
And they laughed at me, you know, they
said, "Oh, you know, let's be serious.
It we have to save the banks
and unfortunately Obama executed
that kind of a strategy."
And by the time I came a little bit
later uh 2011, I wrote uh this uh
article in Vanity Fair uh called of the
1% for the 1% and by the 1% uh echoing
uh Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg address
of the people for the people and by the
people uh where it seemed to me that we
were having a government that was
reflecting that top 1% And that led to
my book, The Price of Inequality. And by
the time I finished that book, The Price
of Inequality, in 2012,
it was clear to me that we were uh
sewing a fertile field for a demagogue.
And I actually said that in the book, uh
a demagogue like Trump. Uh at that
moment I don't think I had any picture
of somebody
as dangerous as uh Trump. You know it
was outsider our vision but that there
would be a demagogue seemed to me uh a
very high risk.
So you have this crisis of capitalism in
in 2008, the the most extraordinary
crisis since 1929,
certainly in the United States, and you
have this response, which that's an
incredible sort of insight. You're on
the same call, I presume, as people like
Tim Gner and, you know, Bob Rubin and
all the all the big shots. And of
course, Tim Gutman, I think Zack
Goldman, he ends up being the Treasury
Secretary for Obama. So you're on that
call, you hear what these guys are
saying and their response is not
remotely interested in the sort of the
political externalities, the political
risks that would entail from their
choices.
Here's a question because you know,
you've been around a long time. You've
seen so many different characters and
personalities in politics. There's an
argument which is that the statesmen in
this country that had the shared
experience of the Second World War and
across Europe actually were terrified of
going back to something like that. And
there was just a shared understanding
that politics can get really nasty
really quickly and we need to avoid that
kind of that kind of volatility, that
kind of volatility, that kind of
downside. And as societies on both sides
of the Atlantic, we've lost that that
inheritance, that kind of collective
knowledge. Do you buy that? that our
sort of commercial and political elites
simply don't think about the possibility
of political chaos, collapse, regimes
falling, demagogues.
Uh I think uh for to a large extent I
think that's true. um you know we've had
so much political stability
uh and particularly after World War II
uh we had decades of shared prosperity
uh where
you know every group in the population
grew but those at the bottom grew more
and so there was a almost out of that
period a a belief in the American middle
class. is this is the world that I uh
grew up in. Um but then
I think we didn't fully appreciate what
began to happen uh in the mid 1970s and
the really strikingly with 1980 Ronald
Reagan neoliberalism
and uh that was really a major departure
from that post
World War II quarter century of social
solidarity,
high taxes, is to uh on the rich but a
kind of solidarity of our society uh on
the whole. And uh that neoliberalism
brought down the taxes at the top,
deregulated
uh you might say let the market rip and
it did. And the result we had growing
inequality, we had financial crisis
after financial crisis. Uh it wasn't the
pretty picture that they had promised.
Uh it was really quite the contrary,
slower growth, more instability, more
inequality.
But
we didn't notice it.
They bought the Kool-Aid so strongly
that even as the data was coming in and
said this experiment is not going well
like any religious uh cult they said
give it more time. Give it more time.
And as time went on we had another
crisis in 2008.
Polit the economic divide got greater.
uh life expectancy in the United States
started to decline
and finally the the vision that I had
seen
uh of
demagogue arising out of this fertile
field of of uh despair
u became a reality. Do you blame the
Obama administration for Trump then?
because it sounds like they took certain
choices which kind of made this somewhat
inevitable. Uh I think the problem
started earlier than Obama. I have to
say I think the problem started in some
sense even under Carter where the
deregulation began. Clinton continued
that big financial deregulation lowered
the taxes on capital gains which is the
major source of income for the very very
wealthy. So, uh, the tax policy that
increased inequality was part of, uh,
Clinton's agenda, uh, but, uh, by the
time of Obama, it was clear where we
were going.
No excuse. So, yes, in the end, I do
blame Obama in a couple ways. Um
first uh he did have one achievement and
that was Obamacare which is the health
care uh for
the large numbers of Americans who
didn't have health insurance. That was
an achievement. Uh it it had in the
design there were a number of mistakes.
One of the things I had advocated was um
what was called the public option. Uh so
if the private sector didn't uh do give
what people wanted and needed, there
would be a public option that was thrown
out under the influence of the uh uh
health insurance companies that didn't
want competition. And the fact that they
didn't want competition should have told
us something that they were afraid of
the public option.
But that was a important success
overall.
Uh but the way he uh handled uh the bank
bailouts, the failures in helping
individuals with mortgages, the
insufficiency
of the uh recovery packages,
uh the failure to do anything about
climate change. Um
and politically
the failure to
America is a federal system where what
happens at the state and local level is
really important.
Uh he didn't strengthen our state
parties, our local parties and uh
meanwhile the Republican party was
shoring up what was going on at state
and local level. And so uh it left the
political system
more vulnerable and it left our economic
system more vulnerable. Yeah. So for for
people watching and listening to this in
the UK as I understand it by 2012
obviously Obama gets reelected but you
already start to see damn ballot races,
Democrats really suffering their vote
not not turning out. And there's one of
these great ironies of the last 15
years, which is that the right has taken
more lessons from the radical left of
the 20th century in organizing building
the party than the center and center
left has. One final question on history
um because I want to talk about the the
substance of this book. You met Milton
Freriedman. I think you sort of
explicitly say that in the in the book
many years ago. What was he like as a
person? Yeah, actually we we had many
many encounters uh over the years. Uh I
was a uh token liberal at uh the Hoover
Institution which is uh I don't know if
you know a think tank uh located on the
Stanford University campus which is uh
uh where uh all the right-wing
uh go to be trained indoctrinated
sort of a each of the president gets a
uh a library and often associated with
the library as a think tank and uh
Herbert Hoover is uh the emblematic
right-wing president who brought on the
depression uh by saying let the market
take care of it. Stock market had
crashed in September 29 didn't do a
thing and we got really the great
depression. So, he's emblematic of what
good right-wing politics uh economic
policy is about and they celebrate that
at the Hoover Institution and they
wanted to bring in a few token liberals
uh into the institution and when I was
teaching at Stanford they brought me in
and and uh a few others can arrow and
you know I welcome this as a chance to
to get to know the whole political
landscape and we had many conversation
but I'll relate one uh particular
conversation I uh back in the uh late
60s early 70s um I wrote uh a paper
explaining
why um firms maximizing their stock
market value would not lead to uh the
general well-being of society. Now I
could you know it's a mathematical uh
formulation of that idea. Uh and at the
about the same time uh Milton Friedman
was writing a very influential uh
article which was published in um the
New York Times magazine on why firms
should maximize uh the stock market
value. and I got invited to the
University of Chicago to uh give a talk
on my paper. Uh and I gave a seminar and
after the seminar we we were uh sitting
outside the seminar room standing
outside the se seminar room and he said
Joe uh you're wrong. Uh, I said, "Melt,
tell me where what an assumption that I
made that you don't like or where I made
a mistake uh in my analysis." He said,
"Joe, you're wrong. I know shareholder
maximization
is optimal. It's good for society." I
said, "Look at I've worked very hard to
show that you're wrong and that you know
here ju just explain to me where in my
analysis I went wrong." He said, "Joe,
you're wrong." And it was very clear at
that point he had become an idologue. He
had strong beliefs. He couldn't engage
in an analytic exercise.
Uh he was very bright. very congenial, a
really very nice guy, very committed uh
to his ideology.
Um there's a little bit I've always felt
a little um uh
dissemblance, I don't know what the
right word is, uh because one of his
arguments in capitalism and freedom, uh
one of his arguments is is that economic
freedom is very important for political
freedom.
And I I think there is some relation
important relationship between the two.
And the way he talked about it seemed to
be what he was really carous about was
political freedom and economic freedom
was the means to get it. And yet he
seemed perfectly at ease going down
and becoming a adviser to Pinocha right
after he had disappeared
tens of thousands of people and using
that as a form of imposing on the
Chilean people his economic ideology.
So was using political authoritarianism
to impose his idea of quote economic
freedom.
I I often look at um like clips of
Freeman online on YouTube or whatever
and I think my god we're really lucky he
didn't exist in a world of Tik Tok and
Instagram because he had this tremendous
capacity for charismatic clicks and you
know clickbait and bite-size thinking
and you know obviously that category
didn't exist back then but he wasn't an
economist he was an influencer by the
end anyway like you say he was he was an
ideologue he did he let me say he did
some very early and important work for
which he got to Nobel Prize and you know
I think everybody respects that uh
pioneering work but uh uh he was a great
ret rhetorician and you know you
couldn't help but admire uh those clip
bakes. Yeah. Yeah. He he was he was a
very very compelling charismatic person.
That doesn't mean the arguments
particularly strong. Um you talk about
Adam Smith in the book a lot. You know
this guy's what more than 250 years ago.
um about the same time as the American
Republic. We're talking the same time,
right? Mid- 18th century. 1776 was when
the Wealth of Nations was written. There
you go. Which is for those your audience
who don't remember, that was uh the year
of our Declaration of Independence,
important year. Um what do you think
Adam Smith would make of free market
liberals um who use his name to justify
the policies they like? Oh, he'd be
rolling over in his grave. Uh, if you
read the totality of Adam Smith, uh,
yes, he talks about the invisible hand,
the pursuit of self-interest leading as
if by the visible hand uh, to the
well-being of society. But that's just
one idea. One way of thinking about that
is he was describing that as one force
going on.
He then went on also to say things like
uh businessmen seldom get together
whether for marrynt or whatever without
a conspiracy against the public. So he
didn't think businessmen were out there
to increase people's well-being and and
he really worried about what we would
call today uh anti-competitive behavior.
uh he writes uh at another point uh that
when regulation is in the favor of
workers, it is almost always for the
good, but not so when it's in the
interest of corporations. He's very much
aware how corporations capture the state
and advance regulations to pursue their
interest to give them what we would
today call ranks profits.
But he also realizes how important it is
for workers
uh for well-being that their state
regulate in behalf of uh workers. Then
he goes on at at another point and talks
about uh how
firms get together as he said almost
always in secrecy to conspire to push
down the wages of workers. And I often
quote that passage when talking about
some of the conspiracies that went on
200 years later in Hollywood and Silicon
Valley to suppress the wages of workers
in some of the highest profitm firms.
They were
working together to lower the wages of
those who were generating their profits.
I mean quite unbelievable. So there
there was a kind of foresight that he
had. Maybe it was about the basic nature
of human nature and and the striving for
profits, but clearly he did not believe
in unfettered capitalism. Yeah. And he
he makes effectively prototrade union
arguments because he talks about
employers working in combination and and
this is this is when trade unions are
well illegal. You get the tall puddle
marts decades later in in the south of
England and they're charged with
precisely this combination coming
together to try to get better wages for
this small group of workers in this tiny
Dorset village. So I mean uh quite
extraordinary how he's been abused and
misused. Why is that? And and was it
always like that? Was there some
political project to reassert that Adam
Smith was a certain kind of person?
Where does that come from? Because if
you just read the wealth of nations or
theory of moral sentiments for 10
minutes, this stuff becomes evident
quite quickly. Yes. Well, I think uh one
way of trying to understand
uh how that came about was to realize
that um
ever since the industrial revolution
uh there's been a debate about the
origins of the inequality that was
associated. memory. The beginning years
of the industrial revolution,
some people did very well, but some
people uh living standards went down,
especially if you include the
environmental degradation of those who
moved to the cities. Uh and you know, if
you read Dickens, you you see the the
the view of how dire things uh were. So,
uh obviously,
uh the capitalists, you might call them,
uh were gaining,
uh and they wanted, uh a theory to
justify what was going on to defend it.
Um and a whole series of uh ideas were
put forward uh uh that I summarized and
called the the just desserts. The reason
the rich are rich is because
uh they deserve it. And what did that
mean? Uh they worked harder, they were
more innovative.
uh Nassau senior who was uh uh the first
holder of the first chair in political
economy at Oxford which I held uh a
couple hundred years later uh said uh uh
um described uh the high income of
capitalists due to their abstinence a
word I loved that they didn't consume
and there therefore it was a reward for
their savings
um So uh that was one theory that all
this inequality don't be upset it's
really morally right. It is uh their
compensation
for what they've contributed the called
the marginal contribute uh productivity
theory and uh it it it it gave a
a sort of a morality
to this uh huge inequality that was then
emerging. The other theory of course was
that of Karl Marx. was based on
exploitation,
taking advantage of workers. Um,
and so you had a contest between two
different views of the world. Um,
one saying
the capital system was very productive
and morally justified. The other was say
was based on exploitation and taking
advantage of others and would eventually
run into problems. Um and so in this uh
debate uh Smith becomes one of the
protagonists for
uh the good capitalism.
Whereas I think from the perspective of
of today 21st century economics we can
see actually Adam Smith was the
reasonable person in the room. Uh he saw
that there were some uh uh benefits that
that there were this incentive system.
Uh but he also saw there was
exploitation and that's why you needed
government regulation. And he also saw
that you needed government intervention
for providing education. He saw a a
broader role of government in public
investment.
So in that way I see Adam Smith as being
very much a modern economist. you know,
not uh the pimacist on exploitation, but
somebody trying to get a a balanced
picture uh of the strengths and the
limits of a market economy. Yeah. Adam
Smith, I think to the modern mind is
probably center left if you actually
read the guy. Uh and Markx, you know, in
in his defense, I mean, he would call
himself an empiricist, but he was also
he was a pmacist, right? He was trying
to write a big political pmic at a
really important moment. And that wasn't
something um Smith did, but it's so
true. You know, you read somebody like
Thomas Mouthys and Adam Smith, I mean,
they're saying such wildly different
things. You know, Thomas Mouthus
basically says if children die because
they can't eat, that's life. So be it.
It's part of the equilibrium system.
Yeah. Yeah. And um the the idea that,
you know, all of these people agreed on
everything is that's a really
interesting way of of seeing it. It's
opposition to Marx.
Does the United States need another FDR?
Yes. Uh you know FDR
uh
responded uh to
the great depression.
uh but in responding to the great
depression he not only
said we have to stimulate the economy to
use today's words he also said we have
some deep problems in our society we
don't have systems of social protection
uh and so he put forth social security
he said you know the bargaining power of
workers isn't there and they're being
left behind. So, we passed what we call
the Wagner Act that gave workers uh uh
bargaining rights. Um these were
transformative.
Uh he also said there's a role for
government in investment.
Uh United States was arguably we were
the richest at least one of the richest
countries at the time. Large fractions
of the country did not have electricity.
and he said well the market hasn't done
this we will
uh provide electricity
uh across the country
um and uh he said you know people
shouldn't live in a life of fear and he
said one of the you know yes we have our
civil rights uh our freedom from speech
freedom of religion all those but we
also have economic make rights uh
freedom from hunger, freedom from fear.
So it was a really reconception
of the role of the state and um you know
he said this is not going to be easy.
They're going to be uh people who want a
small government,
people who want more inequality
and they're going to oppose me. uh but
he had a vision of a different society
and he pushed and he pushed and uh he
achieved a an awful lot. Uh today almost
a hundred years later we're in need of
uh that kind of uh vision uh a visionary
but also a politician who is able to
translate that vision uh into practice.
uh you know Obama's uh chief of staff uh
famously said uh we should not let a
crisis go to waste but Obama did let it
go to waste. Uh it was a patchwork
resuscitating the role of the banks
uh not really reforming
uh our society in any significant way.
um
he let that moment pass. Uh we are now
in another moment where I think uh what
is at stake is much much more because
Trump has trampled on our democracy,
on our rule of law and we now realize
the fragility of our political system,
of our democracy.
Uh we uh realize that our systems of
checks and balances are they may hold.
We hope they hold but they're too
fragile. We shouldn't be we shouldn't be
relying on prayer at this point. But
that's what we are uh relying on right
now. Why do you think progressive
parties are so incapable of producing
another politician like FDR? So that's
not just a question for the United
States. It's the same in the UK and it's
not a recent phenomenon. Like you say,
Obama has the crisis. He wins this huge
mandate, like extraordinary number of
votes. Probably the most charismatic
American politician, I would say, since
Kennedy, but you could say Reagan, but
he's at that level easily. And yet he he
doesn't he doesn't deliver on a holistic
political project. And you see something
similar with Star right now in this
country. Again, you use the word
patchwork. That's precisely it. So why
don't progressive parties across the
anglophone world so far pursue the kind
of agenda you're talking about with with
FDR? What's stopping them? I think one
way of thinking about uh it goes go back
to the uh 1980s, 1990s. We went through
a period of the great moderation.
Um
you might say it was a period of
mellowess
of everybody trying to uh get together.
We were uh there was a you might say I
don't want to say backlash but it was
saying oh uh
FDR was too strident. Uh we're all
middle class now. Let's not talk about
quote class warfare. Uh that's a thing
of the past. That's old uh uh communist
language, you know, let's let's push put
that in uh behind us. Uh we're one big
happy family. Well, of course, we're not
one big happy family. And there are a
very large fraction of Americans who are
very very deeply unhappy. And the same
thing is true in in many other uh
advanced uh countries. But that
belief, that ideology, that hope that we
were one happy family
circumscribed what the politicians felt
comfortable doing. Um they they didn't
want to be strided.
And FDR
looked at that moment and he said I have
no choice. uh if I am not strident we
won't solve the great depression
and he realized that
uh and so he had to make a choice
and it takes somebody who
of some gumption but we do have leaders
uh AOC in the United States uh Bernie
Sanders
there are some of the state governors
who I think
are able to put forward a new agenda, a
progressive agenda. Uh different from
the kind of, you know, we're in the 21st
century. We're in a digital green
transition. Uh it's a very different
world. So it's not replicating the 19th
century battles. It's new. But it but it
requires a a kind of forcefulness
that recognizes
that we are at a moment of upheaval and
that will take strong collective action
and that unfortunately where we are
today not everybody is going to be
happy.
Yeah, it's something that politicians
can't say. Right. Sticking with this for
a moment, I'm gonna come at this with um
a skeptic's eye. So I agree with
everything you've said effectively but
somebody watching this who watches you
know Fox News or in this country GB news
they would say Mr. Stiglets, Professor
Stiglets, um this is all a reasonable
analysis on FDR. I happen to agree with
you in fact but we live in a different
world now. Personal debt is much higher.
Sovereign debt is much higher. We've had
no growth for a really long like real
growth. We've had debt leverage growth
really since the global financial
crisis. We haven't had a growth model in
the US or the UK. People talk about
growth under Trump. Look at the deficits
as well. Um it's you're not creating
like private sectorled prosperity in
that country. Same in this country.
Certainly not if you take out big tech.
So this is not the same as the 30s.
What what would you say to them between
the debt, zero growth, even the
demographics, right? We're much older
societies. So the constraints are
higher, the costs are higher with
regards to elderly care, healthcare,
etc. What would you say to them? Well,
first I would say look at we we we are
uh a more innovative society.
There have been enormous advances in
science. Uh
what is the basis of
why our standard of living today is so
much higher than 250 years ago? It's
basically science and figuring out how
to work together collectively
uh new forms of social organization,
large corporations,
uh
and within the broader sense of society,
checks and balances, rule of law, uh how
to make democracies work. And we've
learned a lot about when things don't
work. Uh what are the principles of good
governance and what are principles of
bad governings. So I would say in terms
of fundamentals, we're actually in a
much better position than we were a 100
years ago. Uh the question is how do we
use all that knowledge and uh channel
that knowledge to make uh a more
prosperous society and prosperous for
not just a few but for most members of
our society
and uh in the end I think uh we've been
caught in a 45 year failed experiment
And to me the the answer is to break out
of the experiment. Recognize the
failure. The experiment of course is the
neoliberal experiment. Uh the idea that
free markets are going to lead to higher
growth that uh will be shared by
everybody through trickle down economics
uh and markets are on their own stable.
I mean all those hypotheses
uh we given them a good try and they
failed not just in one country but in
country after country. So to me with all
that knowledge
we we are on a better footing to begin
to create an alternative economic
system. Uh I don't think it's going to
be easy because in a democracy you have
to convince a lot of people and uh I
hate to use the word but they've been
brainwashed
uh for decades that this particular
system if you only gave it a chance this
system neoliberal capitalism would work.
But eventually they're becoming
disillusioned
and this disillusionment is
leading them to go to
authoritarian populism.
And uh you might say the good news uh in
this uh very dark hour is that Trump is
showing them that authoritarian populism
may not be a good answer for anybody.
Yeah, it's it's interesting that the the
collapse of of neoliberalism and the
collapse of the neoliberal self is
something that you even see play out
with social media. So you might
highlight a market failure or a negative
externality, stuff that people like
yourself as economists have talked about
for a very long time and they'll say
that's socialism, that's immigration.
Because of course it can't be the nature
of the economic system you're living in
because like that's self-correcting. It
finds equilibrium naturally and that's
the that's the fresh air we've been
embibing as a culture for a very long
time. And I and I think you're right.
That's precisely why the answer for many
people is is right-wing
authoritarianism. I'm going to stick
with the skeptic stance for one moment
though.
So, particularly in the UK context, GB
News viewer, they would say, "Okay, Mr.
Stiglets, Professor Stiglets, we want to
create a new system, but debt to GDP is
about 100%.
My personal taxes are quite high. Um, my
my kid is already in Â£50,000 worth of
debt just to go to university.
uh we have 120 billion pound deficit
last year. Our debt interest payments
are 100red billion uh last year which is
you know really really high by UK
standards. Where's the space because you
want to invest more for instance in
public infrastructure. Where's that
money going to come from? So what would
you say to them? Is it coming from tax
rises? Where would you cut stuff? So
first uh let me put it in a little bit
of historical context. uh when the
United States uh emerged from World War
II, we had a debt to GDP ratio
higher than we are today, significantly
higher. Uh we didn't let that stop us.
Uh the decades after that were our
fastest period of growth and that debt
GDP ratio went from around 100 over 130%
down to uh under 45%.
If you grow the economy
then the debt over GDP goes down because
GDP goes up. Uh UK
the debt GDP ratio was even higher and
it then came down. Uh you had a harder
time. The war was worse for you. Uh you
had more destruction. uh we we just
postponed investment but you actually
suffered a lot. Um so that shows you
that that there can be a growth strategy
even when there's a high level of debt.
Now when you get push me on you know
what are the specifics I think there's a
lot of scope for increased taxes. I've
studied it very closely in the United
States. I know we have actually uh scope
for increasing our taxes over a 10-year
window, which is how we measure it, by
trillions and trillions of dollars. Uh
partly there's a huge gap between the
taxes that we're levying and the taxes
we're collecting. There's immense tax
evasion and avoidance uh especially by
corporations.
uh globalization. One of the negative
sides of globalization is that it opened
up a a a wonderful framework for tax
avoidance
uh and evasion through tax uh havens and
tax uh and secrecy. Um but we also uh
have ample uh scope for uh environmental
taxes that would improve
our society by discouraging pollution.
Uh there are other externalities
financial transactions generate
short-term transactions generate
enormous volatility that destabilizes
the economy. So there's a again huge
scope for a financial transaction tax
in the United States.
Owners of capital
are tax at lower rates than somebody
who's working as a plumber.
If you just have fair taxation of
capital, we would raise trillions of
dollars. But if you had progressive
taxation,
constructive realization of capital
gains, lots of details like that, we
would raise again trillions and
trillions of dollars. So in the United
States unamiguous
we have ample opportunities for raising
more money for more public investment in
R&D
and human capital and infrastructure
technology
which would be a growth agenda both on
the bank side and on the supply side
that would usher in a new era. So you
talk about China in in the book. I want
to fold two questions into one really.
Is China a socialist economy or a
capitalist economy? And what lessons can
the west learn from how China has
administered its economy over the last
35 years?
China is sui generous. Uh it describes
itself as a market socialist economy
with Chinese characteristics. So you put
together that string of words and it
says uh we're different from any other
economy. Some people describe it as part
state capitalism. Uh but there is also a
thriving
uh small business sector.
um the government has a much more
pervasive role overall in the economy
than in any of the uh western economies.
Uh so it does play a a very uh big role.
Uh I think there are uh several things
that we can learn from China's success
as an economy.
uh this is not talking about democracy
or any of the other aspect but from
successes in economy. Uh
first
uh it had some vision
uh except
uh we
want to modernize. There's no reason why
we should have a lower standard of
living than the most of banks country.
um how do we get there?
Uh
that's a question that most countries
didn't pose to themselves. Uh and you
know there was a sort of pride that
they're saying no reason that we can't
uh have as high a standard of living as
any other country.
And that opened up the window to try to
understand
uh what makes for economic success.
And they talked to everybody on the left
and the right. My first uh uh meeting
with them was in 1980. Uh my first visit
was in 1981.
Uh and you know continuing discussions.
They wanted to learn from any source
they could find and they listened to
different views and then integrated it
to the within their own framework. Um
out of that came a lot of novel ideas,
innovative ideas. I I don't have time to
describe it now, but one of the things
uh might be obvious uh investment in
people, human capital, and they sent
hundreds of thousands of people to the
United States and to Europe, to
Australia
to learn, to higher education, to be
engineers.
And you see the fruits of that.
A few weeks ago, I was in China. I saw
uh one of their new car factories. Uh
Robux putting together cars. Very few
humans in it. Uh
just amazing. And most of the employees
are not production workers, they're
engineers.
And that in they've gone from having you
might say a comparative advantage in
unskilled labor to having a comparative
advantage in engineering and skilled
labor. Remarkable change in 45 years.
And that's a third aspect of uh they did
some planning some thinking ahead. How
do you achieve this vision? And part of
that is industrial policy.
Now the United States finally is
beginning to embrace some industrial
policies in the chips act uh which uh US
recognized we didn't have the capacity
to produce a essential ingredient in
modern economy which is chips. Uh IRA
which recognized that we aren't prepared
to make the green transition.
Um,
but
we don't have a broader industrial
policy.
What Trump is is using trade as an
industrial policy. He wants to bring
jobs back to America. That's exactly
what industrial policy does. But the way
he's doing it is so thoughtless, so
uninformed, so destructive both to the
United States but to the global economic
order that
it's questionable whether it'll he'll
achieve much and the cost in terms of
the global economy is going to be
enormous and in terms of the American
economy is going to be enormous. So
those are at least uh three aspects that
I think uh one uh can any country can
learn study uh from China. Now China has
some
advantages that uh other countries don't
have scale. Uh you know if you have 1.3
billion people you have a big market.
Having a big market gives you without
borders gives you some advantages.
So they are now in terms of purchasing
power parody which is the way economists
compare economies with different
relative prices. They are now the world
world's largest uh economy and that
gives them an enormous opportunity
uh to continue uh their development
strategy.
Joseph Stiglets, this was a fantastic
conversation. Thanks for joining us on
Downstream. Thank you.
[Music]
