id: pB5Ul3GHFxA
title: Yuval Noah Harari on Israel, AI, and the Future | Unholy Live in London
uploader: Unholy Podcast
channel: Unholy Podcast
upload_date: 20250708
duration: 35:28
view_count: 174778
like_count: 3064
categories: ['News & Politics']
tags: []
webpage_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pB5Ul3GHFxA
description: ```Renowned historian and bestselling author Yuval Noah Harari joins Yonit and Jonathan in this powerful and timely conversation from Unholy Live in London. The recording was made on June 8, 2025.

In this talk, Harari explores:
üîπ The current political crisis in Israel
üîπ The long-term implications of today‚Äôs events for Israeli society and democracy
üîπ The growing impact of Artificial Intelligence (AI) on our daily lives
üîπ How AI will shape the future of humanity, politics, and power

Whether you‚Äôre interested in AI ethics, Middle East politics, or the global future, this conversation is a must-watch.

üìç Recorded live at Unholy: Two Jews on the News ‚Äì a podcast hosted by Yonit Levi and Jonathan Freedland.
```

transcript:
We have a very special guest who I think
I have mentioned uh at the start. He is
uh one of the world's best-selling
historians. He may be the best or
perhaps the second best known Israeli in
the world. He is one of the foremost
thinkers of our time. A warm welcome for
Yuval Noah Harrari.
Thank you.
So, we are very very thrilled to have
you here. Um,
thank you for the invitation. Um, and
you know the thing that we do inevitably
on Unholy is we talk about what's
happened that week and we're focused on
the on the now and what you do and what
has made you uh, you know, acclaimed
around the world is this big picture big
sweep of history. So the events we were
just talking about now this period
October the 7th 2023 till now where does
that fit? Is it footnote or chapter in
the sweep of Jewish history?
I think it's one of the could be one of
the biggest turning points in Jewish
history. maybe the biggest since the
fall of the temple in 70 CE, since the
Roman conquest because Judaism has
survived, it became the world champion
in surviving
uh uh cat catastrophes,
but it never faced a catastrophe like we
are dealing with right now, which is a
spiritual catastrophe for Judaism
itself.
Uh because what is happening right now
in Israel could basically I think
destroy
void 2,000 years of Jewish thinking and
culture and existence
that the worstc case scenario that we
are facing right now and I emphasize
it's it's it's a worstc case scenario.
We can still prevent it and we can talk
later about how to prevent it. But we
should be clear about what we are facing
if if Israel continues on its present
trajectory.
What we are facing is the potential of
an ethnic cleansing campaign in Gaza in
the West Bank resulting in the expulsion
of 2 million maybe more Palestinians
from there. The establishment of greater
Israel.
um the disintegration of Israeli
democracy
and the creation of a new Israel which
is based on an ideology of Jewish
supremacy
and on the worship of what were
completely anti-Jewish values for the
last two millennia.
A country based on the worship of power
and violence and which is militarily
strong. It will survive. It will be
militarily strong. It will have
alliances with various bullies around
the world. It will also be economically
viable. And this will be the spiritual
disaster because this will be the new
Judaism that all Jews in the world will
have to deal with.
um it will not disappear. Again, Jews
are very good dealing with catastrophes
from the Roman conquest to the
Holocaust.
But this will not be a military
catastrophe. The the state will actually
be successful in military and economic
terms
and it will make the challenge much much
bigger. No Jew say in London or New York
or anywhere else will be able to say
this is not the real Judaism. It's like
being say a communist in the 1950s in in
London and saying no the Soviet Union is
not really communism. They misunderstood
it. No, this will be the new Judaism and
maybe the only Judaism.
Sorry.
No, there's so much to ask about what
you're saying, but what I'm wondering is
and and how to change that trajectory,
but when you look at the political map,
the extreme part of Israeli society is
actually a minority.
History is done by minorities. Most
people sit at home while history is
being done by five 10% of the
population. This has always been the
case.
And um I'm afraid that at least for some
of the things that I've mentioned, it's
not five or 10% of the Israeli
population. Like I was not surprised but
still shocked that when President Trump
suddenly put on the table the idea maybe
we just expel all the Palestinian from
Gaza.
A lot of Israelis, including people I
know personally,
who had these thoughts somewhere in the
back of the mind and always told
themselves, "You cannot say that and
it's pointless to say that because it's
unrealistic." The moment it came out of
the mouth of the US president, yes, we
can do that.
It was not five or 10% of the Israeli
population. Um, the support for these
kinds of things, I don't know the exact
numbers. But it could be even more than
50%.
But if you did the opposite and said
Palestinian state and you'll have Saudi
normalization, you don't think you'd
have a a strong support from the Israeli
public?
It's it's it still can. But again, it's
a question of what happens from now
onwards. But the possibility again of
ethnic cleansing and then undemocratic
Israel based on an ideology of Jewish
supremacy becoming the new reality. And
this is not a prophecy, but this is a
distinct possibility that we have to
really take into account. And the big
question that I would ask
is what are the values? What are the
ideals that Israel still stands for?
What positive ideals it still stands
for? Now, maybe I I'll I'll say
something. I I'll tell a story from
Jewish history that 2,000 years ago when
the Romans destroy the temple and
destroy Jerusalem,
Rabi Yohan Benzakai
asks the Roman commander, the Spasian,
for a favor. And he asks asks him, "Give
me the town of Yav and its wise people,
10 Yav."
And Vespasian agrees. He gives Benzakai
Yav where he establishes a center of
Jewish learning. And this is the the
previous big transformation in Jewish
history. You know, biblical Judaism and
second temple Judaism. It was a violent
tribal religion. The central rituals of
Judaism at that time were the bloody
rituals in the temple. It was a very
bloody religion.
And at that moment, Benzakai and his
colleagues, they completely change the
meaning of Judaism.
They turn it into a religion of
studying. This become the the the one
number one Jewish value is to study, to
learn, to debate, to develop wisdom.
Jews sit in Yavn and they learn. And
they go to Baghdad and Cairo and they
learn. and they go to Golders Green and
to Brooklyn and they learn. And for
2,000 years, this is what they do. We
do. We learn. And after 2,000 years,
Jews from all over the world come back
to Jerusalem to realize, to put into
practice what they have learned for
2,000 years.
And when I look at Israel now, I ask
myself, what did they learn in 2,000
years?
What the hell did they learn? They
learned to build a strong army.
Definitely. They learned to fight
courageously. Definitely. Some of them
learned the joy of crushing weaker
people under our feet. They learned
that. But all of these things, the
Romans knew them 2,000 years ago. So,
Benzakai made the wrong request.
Instead of wasting 2,000 years on
learning that you could have just asked
VPasian,
tell me
commander, how do you build a strong
army? Tell me you and your legionaries,
how you do you develop the the courage
to fight in war? And tell me about the
pleasure of crushing weaker people under
our feet. What was the point of 2,000
years of learning if the only thing we
learned is what the Romans already knew?
It's a waste of time. This scenario
you've
that future scenario you you set out
which is a very bleak picture of a
different kind of
some of it is being realized as we
speak.
Sure. But what my first question to you
is where this sits in the sweep of
Jewish history and you've just given us
a very arresting sense of that with
these 2,000 wasted years. How much
though of what's going on now in Israel,
this particular government, the the the
formation it's taking fits actually with
some global trends that we can see
around us? In other words, that it's not
peculiarly Jewish, but is actually in
keeping with what we might see in Trump
or Orban or other places.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean one thing that should
be emphasized
um that there is nothing uniquely bad
about Israel. There is nothing uniquely
bad about what's happening now in Gaza.
We've seen it so many times in history
and we see it also today in different
areas around the world. And
certainly
what Israel is now undergoing both
internally in terms of the
disintegration of the democratic system
and also externally with the war, it is
part of much wider trends.
And certainly if we talk about the war,
it's part of the collapse of the global
liberal order which dominated most of
the world in recent decades and is now
being rapidly dismantle dismantled
uh first and foremost by the country
that created it in the first place, the
United States.
And again, it's it's a big subject, so
I'll focus on just one thing.
The most important taboo of the global
liberal order was that you cannot that
strong countries cannot just invade and
conquer other countries by force of arms
just because they are stronger.
This was the situation for thousands of
years. This is something that the Romans
did very very well and
it stopped being the situation
in the last few decades. It has been I
would say the most amazing political and
maybe moral achievement of humankind
and it's it was not a dream. It was a
reality and the place to see that it was
a reality is in government budgets.
You know, people talk about peace and
war and they think about, you know, all
these pacifist literature or or poetry.
Don't read poetry. Read government
budgets.
And government budgets over the last 20
or 30 years have been the most p the
most amazing thing to read because for
most of history or like in the Roman
Empire more than 80% of the budget of
the Roman Empire was spent on soldiers,
warships, fortresses, weapons. And this
was the situation until the 20th
century. You look at the budget not just
of of empires also of democratic
countries in the early 20th century more
than 50% is spent on the military. In
the early 21st century the average
expenditure all over the world taking
all countries including Israel and Iran
and North Korea into account the average
expenditure went down to between six and
7%.
compared to 10% average spent on health
care. It was the first time in human
history that governments spent more
money on health care than on the
military.
So it was a reality and it was all based
on this basic taboo that okay there are
civil wars, there are revolts,
revolutions, we didn't solve all
problems but one thing is off the table.
You cannot invade and conquer another
country just because you're stronger.
And this taboo has now been broken
most clearly by Putin with the invasion
of Ukraine.
But instead of trying to contain it and
to punish Russia for what it has done,
uh the current US administration
joined Russia in basically saying this
is the new normal. It's no longer a
taboo. you can now do it. And for
instance, when President Trump says that
he has plans to annex Greenland and if
Denmark refuses to said to seed
Greenland, then all the options are on
the table, including the use of force,
you know that we are in a different
world.
Yeah.
And um every government around the world
now realizes
now we had this terrible meeting between
Trump and the the greatest Jewish leader
of our time which is Volum Zalinski
which is was just again you saw history
in action on on on television.
Um Trump was repeatedly telling Zalinski
you don't have the cards you don't have
the cards and Zilinski was saying I'm
not playing cards.
Yeah. And Trump was telling him, you are
playing cards and you don't have the
cards. International relations are no
longer about low, about morality, about
justice. It's only about cards. And
every prime minister and president in
the world was watching this exchange,
telling herself or himself, I could be
in Zelinsk's chair next year. Do I have
cards? And every prime minister and
president picked up the phone and told
his defense minister and his treasury
minister, we need cards.
Should have brought cards to this event.
And you know, I'm I'm traveling the
world and in more and more countries I
visit the the the one thing that I keep
hearing is nuclear weapons.
Yeah.
You go to Germany, you go to Poland, you
go to Japan, they are telling you we
need nuclear weapons.
If the if if Russia invades Lithuania or
Poland,
will the Americans really protect us?
No. We need cards. So if you're Germany,
for instance, and you ask yourself, who
will give us some cards?
So we can't trust the US. There are two
other countries in Europe with nukes.
You have Britain, you have France. Um,
Britain is no longer in the EU. France,
what if Leen or one of her people wins
the next elections? Does Germany really
want its defense to rely on that kind of
French government? What happens in
Britain? What happens if if Nigel Farage
is the next prime minister? Does Germany
really want to depend on the decisions
of Nigel Farage to defend it from
Russia?
So they say we need cards.
But it sounds like you don't think
liberal democracy stands a chance in
this world.
Democracy is a different issue.
Democracies sometimes have nuclear
weapons.
Democracies sometimes have very strong
armies to defend themselves. It's there
are two of course it it it has in
influences
but there is a conversation about the
survival of democratic systems. There is
a conversation about the survival of
international order. We shouldn't mix
the two together because the one of the
good things about the uh uh liberal
order of recent decades is that even
autocratic regimes were part of it. It
was not an order that was restricted to
democratic countries alone.
Um also countries like China they can be
part of this international rule of law
which again was the biggest taboo that
you can't invade and conquer other
countries without being democratic.
Um so it's it's it's two parallel u um
crisis that we are facing and we need to
make a distinction that we we don't need
all the countries in the world to be
democratic in order to maintain this
basic taboo.
We we've gone on and we we pushed you
there into the bigger picture of the
world. Just before we leave our
parochial particular concern about the
conflict in uh Israel Palestine,
it's a thing that people say um about
other conflicts that the thing about
conflicts is in in the end they end um
you know whether it's Northern Ireland
or South Africa, whatever it is that in
the end they end. Is that true? And if
it's not true, what makes the Israeli
Palestinian conflict exceptional? It's
not exceptional. I mean, it's
exceptional in the sense that every
conflict is is exceptional. There are
unique features for every conflict in in
the world. Uh the Israeli Palestinian
conflict is not exceptionally brutal.
It's not exceptionally complicated. It's
not exceptionally long. If people say,
you know, every every conflict ends in
the end. So, I don't know, you mentioned
Ireland. How many centuries did it take?
I don't know when you start. It's always
the question when when you choose to
start it. But if you start, you know, in
in the 12th century with William
Strongbo and the Norman baronss coming
to Ireland. So it took what 800 years.
Israel is just, you know, it's just one
century. So by this calculation, it will
be going in in in in 2,600
when there are no longer any human
beings around. It's just AIS and
cyborgs.
We're going to get on to that.
I don't know if that's a scary thought
or not. Actually,
I was just thinking how full of cheer
you value. He's our He's our little ray
of sunshine that he's bringing here.
It It does help. It does help because I
I I have to tell you, yesterday I was at
a dinner party with very good friends
and there were two topics on the table.
One was the Middle East and the other
was AI. And the issue of AI was markedly
more depressing than the Middle East,
which I I found in a weird way a little
bit reassuring because at the end of the
day, the Middle East is about what you
would call the carbon-based uh uh mind,
right? The decisions. It could be bad
decisions, good decisions, trajectories,
but it's still humans. An AI at some
point when it can refine itself, when we
hit the artificial global intelligence
or the artificial super intelligence, no
one honestly knows what is going to
happen. Not the designers, not anyone
else.
And I wonder when you what do you what
would you even like this audience to
leave here with thinking about about
that about AI?
So again before we kind of rush to say
is it good is it bad you know utopian
scenarios dystopian scenarios just to
understand what to focus on why is it
such a big revolution which is different
from anything we've seen before in
history and the the the word the term to
focus on is agency.
Every previous invention in human
history empowered humans because whether
it was the printing press or the atom
bomb or the airplane, it was a tool in
our hand. We decide what to do with it.
Yeah.
AI is different because it's not a tool.
It is an agent. What is an agent? An
agent is something that can make
decisions by itself, can invent new
ideas by itself, can learn and change by
itself.
By definition, if you create an agent,
you cannot predict what it will do and
how it will behave.
If you create something which you know
in advance everything it will do, it is
not an AI. It could be automatic. We
have lots of automatic machines, coffee
machines, whatever. They are not AI.
AI is defined by the ability to learn
and change and make decisions by itself.
Um, and we have no idea what will happen
when not just one AI appears.
We are talking about billions of AI
agents that will be here in just a few
years. They may not be AGI, artificial
general intelligence. They might have
still relatively limited scope, but they
will increasingly be in charge of the
financial system, of accepting people
for for jobs, of the military. Uh going
back to the Middle East, the Gaza war
has been one of the first AI wars in
history. A lot of the decisions during
the war, including life and death
decisions, which buildings to bomb,
which people to kill, were done to some
extent by AIS.
Um it can also of course have enormous
positive potential.
millions, billions of AI agents can
change the NHS and uh solve the problem
of shortage of at least some doctors and
other medical personnel can provide you
know you can have the best doctor in the
world available 24 hours a day
everywhere for zero pounds.
I gonna have the best healthcare in
history. At the same time, again, the
the dangers are really beyond literally
beyond our imagination.
Let's bring in a question from our
audience actually because it was on
this. We asked all of you before you
came to send in questions to us and
we're going to get to most of them
later, but one of them was directly on
this and it was addressed to you Daphna
Salomon. Um I I would ask where you are
Daphne, but I can't see any of you
anyway. Um, but she asks, "As a parent
to young children, will the idea of
having values survive the next iteration
of humanity living alongside AI? The
idea that in all realms of life, social,
political, cultural, there are values
like truth, kindness, innovation,
creativity, will those simply be
replaced," she asked, by fabricated
truth and reality? There will be no
reason to acquire knowledge or
expertise. it will all be irrelevant if
AI uh is
sort of in the forefront. So what
happens DNA asks two values in the world
you're describing
and they are more important than ever
because the decisions the choices we
need to make are more consequential than
ever and we cannot rely on the AIs to
make these decisions for us because a
lot of people confuse they hear AI
artificial intelligence they think that
intelligence is somehow connected to
truth so a super intelligent AI I will
have a kind of super access to truth.
No, intelligence is not about truth.
Intelligence is the ability to solve
problems, to define goals and solve
problems on the way to the goal. The
truth is one of the things that can help
you do that, but not the only one. And
we have seen with human beings that
human beings until today have been the
most intelligent animals entities on the
planet and at the same time we have also
been the most delusional entities on the
planet. We believe nonsensical things
that no chimpanzee and no dog and no
horse would ever believe.
And a super intelligence is very likely
to be super delusional
even more deluded than we are.
So we would need again a very strong
ethical basis a very strong basis of
values more than even before because the
challenges are bigger.
Yeah. I mean a super intelligence is
more bound to build a super delusion is
something that we will be left with just
asking as a human are we going to lose
depending it depends on us
okay
and does it depend on us
history is a radically open-ended
process
you know you had dur for most of human
history humans had these two main
visions of history one of them is a
linear history progressing towards a
predetermined end that in the end the
Messiah would come in the end God will
do some miracle in the end whatever or
if you're a Marxist in the end the
revolution will come
or if you're here in the end an
intermission will come you know
yeah and then you had the cyclical model
that things just repeat themselves again
and again and again in the same cycle
and the truth is neither history is a
radically open-ended process
It doesn't repeat itself and it doesn't
go to a predetermined place. Right now,
it can it can go in radically different
ways with what's happening to democracy,
to the international order, with AI.
Um, and it depends on the choices we
make.
But hang on, you've just said it depends
on the choices we make. You've also told
us that AI has agency. So, it doesn't
depend only on the choices.
In five years, it will no longer depend
on us. in five years.
Yes. I mean, we'll still ma be making
big choices in five years, but in five
years, the AIs will also be making some
of the most important choices in the
world,
and they'll be making those choices
without recourse to us
increasingly. Yes. Again, think the best
example is the financial system. When
people think about the AI revolution,
they tend to imagine the Terminator
robots flying in the streets shooting
people. It's better to think about
something like the 20078 financial
crisis
that finance is the ideal playing ground
for AI because it's a it's a
purelyformational realm. It's just data
in data out. You don't need a body in
order to to the navigating space in
order to get into finance. We are very
close to the point when you can take an
AI give it say an initial fund of a
million dollars and tell the AI just do
whatever you understand turn it into a
billion
and you can also incorporate I'm not
sure about UK law but in the US you can
incorporate the AI so it becomes a legal
person defended by the constitution at
least according to the interpretation of
the current Supreme Court it has freedom
of speech
freedom of association. It can open bank
accounts. It can make donations to
politicians.
Um, increasingly most of the financial
decision in the world even today are
done by algorithms.
Uh, you could have regulations against
it but the current US administration is
not extremely keen on regulations.
So we could be just a few years away
from the financial system being taken
over by again not one AI, millions and
millions of financial AI trading, making
money, investing, firing people, hiring
people, whatever. And you know the 20078
financial crisis which we are still
living with its consequences.
Much of you know the crisis of the
democratic system it started there.
Yeah. And it was because some very
intelligent and very delusional humans
invented extremely complex financial
devices called CDOS's that almost nobody
understood and the regulators failed to
regulate for a couple of years. They
made billions and then everything
crashed. Now what if AIs invent new
financial devices that no human being on
earth understands for a couple of years
they make billions and trillions and
everybody's happy. Then there is a huge
huge crisis and you know they wake the
president in the middle of the night and
they tell him the financial system is in
meltdown and nobody has any idea what is
happening because there is no human
being on earth which is able to
understand these new financial devices
that the AI invented. See, this is what
I mean. It's so scary. You want to go
back to talking about the Middle East,
but I mean I but let's try and and
breathe through this and how do you
prepare for a world and you you talked
about this. You said people are not only
going to be out of a job because of AI,
but they'll be unemployable because this
is an ever you called it this this um
revolution.
If you're in the financial sector and
you can no longer understand the
financial devices,
then
then you're unemployable. How do you
prepare your children, the next
generation? How do you yourself prepare
for that kind of world?
The most important thing is to have a
very flexible mind because the one thing
we know for sure is that the pace of
change is only going to accelerate.
Nobody has any idea how the financial
system or the economic system would
look, the job market would look like in
10 years or 15 years. So if you say okay
I'll teach my kids how to code computers
this is the computer age they should
learn how to code. No in five or 10
years maybe you don't need any human
coders because AI is doing all the
coding. Mhm.
So we don't know the the the reality is
we just don't know what will be the
skills people will need in 10 years
except for one. We know they will need
the skill to readjust and reinvent
themselves. And again this is a very
difficult mental skill. It's not
learning something that then remains
unchanged throughout your life. It's
learning how to keep learning all your
life. I want to go back to even an
earlier part of our talk which is my
introduction of you and I mentioned how
you are one of the best known Israelis
in the world and just in our closing
minute or two.
Um what has that been like in this
period these 20 months we're talking
about to be famously an Israeli in the
world you move in going through the
world has it been different? Has it been
harder? Just tell us about it.
Personally
um I did not encounter a lot of you know
anti-semitism. I doing I'm doing events
all over the world. So in a few places
there were demonstrations like we were
in Seo and we had a demonstration of
people chanting my name somehow linking
it with genocide.
Uh what was it? Harari you can hide you
you're supporting genocide.
And you know it was eight students.
They were not violent and I yeah it's a
you know it's a free country South Korea
just had an election. Um and they they
are free to demonstrate
and I don't agree with them but I think
they should have the right to say these
things. Uh I don't think it's very
constructive but humans often do
unconstructive things.
Um I did I did have a lot of more
constructive conversations all over the
world.
Uh one of the things that I see for
instance in Israel is that people have
this kind of it's I think part of the
government propaganda this extreme idea
that
in the whole world everybody hates us
and like I'm talking with people in
Israel and they tell me be be careful in
London. It's very dangerous there.
And again, the the ability of humans to
invent and and believe in illusions that
serve their purposes. Mhm.
Um I do hope that what you're trying to
do and have a more constructive and
complex conversation, the ability to
see, you know, the humans have also this
amazing ability to hold two ideas in
their mind at the same time.
You know, you have these billions, tens
of billions of neurons and trillions of
synapses. They should be able to hold
two ideas. I didn't say 10 ideas. Two
ideas at the same time.
That Israel has a right to exist and
also Palestine has a right to exist.
Shouldn't be so difficult.
Thank you. We are
as as long as there are humans, it's
always a delight to talk to you. It
really is. And even after I think it
will be a delight.
Even afterwards a big big and warm thank
you to you know Harrari.
Thank you.
